Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)
Replacement Model for VA.gov
Request for Information (RFI)
Solicitation Number: 36C10B26Q0131 Response Due Date: February 5, 2026

Submitted To: Allison Fulton, Contract Specialist Allison.fulton@va.gov
Evan Schlisserman, Contracting Officer evan.schlisserman@va.gov
Submitted By: Oddball, Inc. 1775 Tysons Blvd, 5th Floor McLean, VA 22102 POC: Rico Rivera, VP of Federal Health proposals@oddball.io (240) 813-5133

CAGE: 7HL75 UEI: MHNFNJ1J5RF5 Website: oddball.io

Restrictive Legend: This response includes data that shall not be disclosed outside the Government and shall not be duplicated, used, or disclosed--in whole or in part--for any purpose other than to evaluate this response. If, however, a contract is awarded to this offeror as a result of--or in connection with--the submission of this data, the Government shall have the right to duplicate, use, or disclose the data to the extent provided in the resulting contract. This restriction does not limit the Government's right to use information contained in this data if it is obtained from another source without restriction. The data subject to this restriction are contained in sheets affixed with the following legend: Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this response.

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Replacement Model for VA.gov
Table of Contents 1 Capability Statement ............................................................................................................... 1
1.1 Experience with Similar Challenges ............................................................................... 1 1.2 Ideas, Capabilities, and Approaches ............................................................................... 2
1.2.1 Resiliency................................................................................................................ 3 1.2.2 Speed of Delivery ................................................................................................... 3 1.2.3 Security ................................................................................................................... 6 1.3 Case Studies from Similar Environments ....................................................................... 7 1.3.1 Case Study #1: VA.gov Platform AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service Migration..... 7 1.3.2 Case Study #2: VA.gov Platform Front End Deployment Improvements.............. 7 1.4 User Journey Workflows ................................................................................................ 8 1.5 Limitations, Risks, and Tradeoffs ................................................................................... 8 1.6 Lessons Learned from Past Deployments....................................................................... 9 Appendix A. ................................................................................................................................ A-1 A-1. Work Isolation + Least Privilege Authorization Model ................................................. A-1 A-2. User Journey Workflow: VA.gov Sign-In User Journey................................................ A-2 A-3. Oddball's PACT Act Datadog Dashboard...................................................................... A-3 A-4. Oddball's VA.gov Platform Contingency Deployment Plan ......................................... A-4
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this response. Page | ii

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Replacement Model for VA.gov

Name Address
Point of Contact Information Brief Description of Relevant Capabilities

Table 1. Company Overview Oddball, Inc. 1775 Tysons Blvd, 5th Floor McLean, VA 22102 Rico Rivera, VP of Federal Health (240) 813-5133 | proposals@oddball.io Oddball is an established digital services agency trusted by federal clients, including the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), the U.S. Air Force (USAF), and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), to lead digital modernization in highly regulated, high-traffic environments. Across multiple programs, Oddball is relied upon to evaluate emerging technologies, establish governance frameworks, and accelerate new product and feature delivery to meet rapidly evolving user needs.
Oddball plays a central role across the entire VA ecosystem. Represented through our ongoing work as the prime contractor on VA.gov Platform, Oddball designed and built today's cloud-based architecture leveraging AWS infrastructure, platforms, and services that support long-term scalability, adaptability, and resilience. We also directly facilitate the delivery of Veteran-facing products, enabling 46 Veteran-facing services (VFS) teams and adjacent VA teams to successfully build consistent, mobile-first, user-friendly interfaces on VA.gov. This deep understanding of VA's digital front door allows us to identify where targeted improvements will improve resiliency, increase speed of delivery, and enhance security while preserving reliability for Veterans who depend on VA.gov for their benefits and healthcare services.

Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this response. Page | iii

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Replacement Model for VA.gov
1 Capability Statement Oddball is a trusted partner to VA supporting VA.gov, which serves as the primary digital front door that millions of Veterans, their families, and caregivers use to access healthcare and benefits. Before merging Vets.gov with VA.gov, Veterans were navigating a fragmented and often frustrating ecosystem of websites, forms, and logins while VA managed the web of tools, databases, processes, and personnel. Consolidating these experiences under VA.gov led to a more accessible user experience (UX), consistent design standards, shared development practices, and a stronger foundation for secure, scalable service delivery. As VA.gov continues to evolve in response to Veteran needs, policy shifts, legislative mandates, emerging security threats, and the introduction of new benefit integrations, sustaining its reliability, security, and resilience requires intentional and iterative modernization. Grounded in our day-to-day operation of VA.gov's core Platform, our ideas, capabilities, and approaches (Section 1.2) focus on the structural improvements needed to strengthen consistency, harden security, and support sustainable growth while preserving continuity of service for Veterans.
Oddball brings a deep, systems-level understanding of the VA ecosystem through our experience operating across multiple high-performing programs. Our experience operating within this interconnected environment informs how we believe VA can successfully procure and evaluate the VA.gov replacement options. At this scale, effective modernization depends on clear anticipated outcomes, and scaling based on proven results. While services and commercial solutions should be aligned, procuring the platform product and delivery services under the same contract can affect how platform decisions are made over time and shift priorities away from Veteran needs. Separating the platform from the delivery services preserves VA's flexibility to procure and scale the platform according to its evolving operational needs across the broader ecosystem.
To accelerate contract delivery while minimizing acquisition risk, we recommend that the Government leverage SBIR Phase III for required services with vendors that already demonstrate successful outcomes in prior SBIR phases. This would allow VA to quickly validate solutions, scale proven capabilities, and preserve flexibility as VA.gov's needs evolve across the entire ecosystem.
1.1 Experience with Similar Challenges Oddball supports multiple efforts across VA.gov including platform development, modernization, and dayto-day operations. This work requires operating a critical digital platform at scale while balancing high availability, secure identity and access, and a consistent UX across a shared ecosystem. These operating realities shape our perspective on platform replacement. Our experience leading large-scale modernization efforts illustrates how we have addressed similar challenges VA faces today, as detailed in Table 2.
Table 2. Proven Examples with Similar Challenges
VA.gov Platform: Since 2019, Oddball has provided VA with ongoing development, engineering, and platform management support for VA.gov. Oddball enables product and delivery teams to support nearly 25 million signedin visits annually and more than 55 million completed digital activities across VFS. We operate a highly available, secure, and scalable platform that provides continuous feature delivery across a complex ecosystem. Oddball engineers and operates VA.gov Platform infrastructure, governance, and security controls that keep critical benefits and healthcare services reliable and accessible for Veterans. Alongside core platform operations, Oddball develops, maintains, and operates shared design and form libraries, including the VA Design System (VADS), which reduces duplication, improves consistency, and prevents fragmentation. Over the past year, our Platform team handled more than 3,700 support requests, demonstrating sustained operational support at scale and minimizing service disruptions. Through ongoing modernization efforts, we operate and modernize VA.gov Platform, enforcing governance to sustain an average uptime of 99.9%, allowing uninterrupted access. Our work on VA.gov Platform reflects our experience supporting an enterprise platform that enables governance, consistency, and coordinated delivery that improves UX.
Identity Services: Oddball supports the development and enhancement of the Veteran-facing digital identity services for VA.gov and the VA Health and Benefits mobile app. We focus on improving the sign-in experience for Veterans, streamlining the process through Credential Service Providers (CSPs), like Login.gov and ID.me, and implementing secure access to critical health and benefits information. As a result, the successful return rate
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this response.
Page | 1

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Replacement Model for VA.gov
for Login.gov users increased from 74.1% to 84.4% within a year, reducing sign-in failures and enabling more Veterans to access benefit and health information without disruption. We successfully completed the deprecation of MHV and DS Logon credentials to reduce security risk and strengthen protection of Veteran data, positioning us to manage the transition to a new identity solution. Since project start, we facilitated the integration between VA.gov and the Identity, Credential, and Access Management (ICAM) modernization pilot solution and have conducted extensive collaboration with the VA Product Owner, resulting in a robust roadmap that now drives sprint planning and user research. Oddball aligns identity services with NIST 800-53-based controls and NIST 800-63 Digital Identity Guidelines to protect Veterans' sensitive data while simplifying their interactions with VA services. Our work on Identity Services highlights our advanced IT enabling secure, efficient digital service delivery, and interoperable health IT that improves Veterans' access to critical health data.
My HealtheVet Patient Portal Platform, APIs, and Backend Services: Oddball supports VA's modernization of My HealtheVet by operating the backend services that power secure messaging, medical records, and medication management for millions of Veterans, across VistA and Oracle Health's Electronic Health Record (EHR) ecosystem. Our work combines scalable infrastructure, security practices, and human-centered engineering to keep high-value clinical services stable and accessible across VA.gov and mobile platforms. We strengthened identity and access flows through the development of the account creation API, integration of Login.gov, and ID.me, maintaining continuity of access as systems evolve. Our teams deliver continuous monitoring and 24/7 on-call support, reinforcing reliability during peak demand and safeguarding continuity, and enabling forward-looking modernization. Through agile delivery and proactive platform stewardship, we actively coordinate across teams and evolve shared operational practices to support ongoing modernization and reliable, Veteran-centered digital health services.
1.2 Ideas, Capabilities, and Approaches Oddball views VA as a core partner, and we understand the complexity involved in making monumental changes to a highly visible, public-facing digital service. One of the most difficult parts of reimagining VA.gov is not redesigning the front end, but navigating and working within the interconnected ecosystem, including downstream systems, benefit applications, notifications, claims status, and back-end APIs to middleware systems. This ecosystem also includes interconnected systems across multiple different agencies, including TIC and transit gateway constraints, public APIs, and VA- and government-managed systems operating behind a firewall. Given this complexity, Oddball recognizes that presenting a single technology solution or COTS product will not fully replace or modernize VA.gov and its intricacies. A successful modernization approach will highlight the need for COTS products where necessary, avoid vendor lock-in driven by over-customization and poorly documented implementations, and align commercial solutions with the unique nature of Veteran needs and VA requirements. For example, Oddball will evaluate the need for a Platform-as-a-Service foundation to provide built-in capabilities that VA.gov teams should not have to reinvent (e.g., certificate management, authentication/authorization integration, lifecycle management of application instances), seamlessly integrating COTS and VA-specific components without creating unnecessary platform complexity. We will start small, iterate quickly, and scale only on proven outcomes, leveraging COTS when the marketplace offers purpose-built solutions that meet VA's needs and build where it does not, always guided by what is best for VA and the Veterans it serves.
This effort is a complicated problem, directly mapped to layers of both VA, and non-VA specific policies and requirements, and demands a partner who can quickly accommodate to new capabilities, successfully deliver the proper combination of custom and commercial software to tackle the dynamic nature of VA.gov, and provide the meaningful improvements that will help Veterans, and their families better access their benefits and healthcare information. Oddball will modernize VA.gov to not only maintain continuity of service and provide a more seamless user experience for Veterans, but also to support long-term scalability, adaptability, and resilience. Sections 1.2.1-1.2.3 are informed by our role as the long-standing operator of VA.gov's core Platform and our daily responsibility for its reliability, security, and performance. Our proximity to day-to-day operations, combined with the independence to critically assess what must evolve next, positions us to identify structural improvements that will empower VA.gov to scale sustainably as demand, integrations, and Veteran expectations grow.
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this response.
Page | 2

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Replacement Model for VA.gov
1.2.1 Resiliency Table 3. Improving Resiliency of VA.gov
Rethink VA.gov Dashboard and Notifications: A resilient VA.gov experience keeps Veterans oriented and able to act quickly during time-sensitive moments. Oddball will strengthen this resiliency by re-envisioning the VA.gov dashboard as an immersive "home base," providing Veterans with the most important information and actions at a glance across the VA.gov website and mobile devices. The dashboard will surface the most relevant information (e.g., pending claims actions, enrollment tasks, benefit updates, upcoming appointments) with clear calls to action and the ability to drill into details when needed. To help Veterans understand where to go after logging into VA.gov, we will integrate a more robust notification system, alerting them to important tasks that need completion, and providing easy-to-follow navigation. Oddball will introduce a more powerful, platform-wide search experience that makes it easier for Veterans to quickly find what they need, including authenticated data and Personally Identifiable Information (PII), making it easier to locate the right tools, forms, services, and private information without having to click through multiple pages or guess where something lives. These improvements will give Veterans the same clear, guided experience whenever and wherever they log in, bringing together key updates, next steps, and user-friendly navigation in one place to locate benefits and healthcare tasks faster. Implement Watchtower Monitoring Best Practices: Modernizing VA.gov requires a strong, consistent method to monitor and log alerts, applications, and services across the entire ecosystem to remain resilient. Monitoring practices are often high-level, with no clear process or consistent communication across teams, and not all areas of the ecosystem are consistently monitored or thoroughly logged, resulting in inconsistent visibility, slow incident response times, and difficulty identifying issues with application or service performance before it impacts VA.gov users. To address this, Oddball will strengthen the current WatchTower team process by establishing best practices that will promote consistency and resiliency, and align teams on what must be logged, monitored, and routinely checked. This includes refining the current WatchTower playbook, requiring teams to monitor and log the same core "golden signals" (e.g., Latency, Error Rate, Volume, Saturation), so every service has consistent baseline coverage and can be evaluated using the same standards. This playbook will shift the WatchTower team into a proactive shared operational service, providing teams with clear expectations, reusable templates, and consistent patterns. This improves users' trust in VA.gov by delivering a more reliable, less disruptive experience with faster resolution times when issues arise.
1.2.2 Speed of Delivery VA.gov modernization is slowed not by a lack of ideas, but by the complexity of the ecosystem itself. The platform spans dozens of teams tightly coupled services, and legacy integrations where ownership and dependencies are not always clear. As a result, planning and executing modernization work often requires extensive manual intervention, coordination, and rework. With Oddball's deep understanding of the current ecosystem, we know precisely where the integration of AI will be the most impactful (see Table 4) to not only VFS teams but also the millions of Veterans, families, and caregivers who rely on VA.gov for consistent and accurate healthcare information. However, Oddball also recognizes that increasing delivery speed is not only about adding AI tooling or stronger governance, but also about reducing unnecessary burden by refining and removing legacy rules, regulations, and workflow requirements that no longer serve AI-enabled processes.
Table 4. Improving Speed of Delivery on VA.gov Separating Application Boundaries: To provide Veterans with faster, more secure improvements to the services they rely on, Oddball will leverage our experience establishing well-defined, tightly scoped application boundaries (see Case Study #2 below) for VFS teams to safely and rapidly deploy new applications (A-1). The current ecosystem operates as a monolith, with shared namespaces, permissions, and tooling, all of which increase the likelihood that one team's changes will inadvertently affect others and complicate incident response. By isolating workloads into dedicated namespaces with least-privilege access and policy enforcement at the namespace level, we will not only shift governance to the Platform level by enforcing consistent guardrails but also simplify dependencies and give VFS teams within their isolated workloads greater autonomy over the development and deployment of their applications. This allows for parts of code to move or change independently without risk of impacting the larger system, providing Veterans with more stable access to the services they need even during bug fixes or feature updates. We will incrementally modernize capabilities with standardized, persona-based permissions, allowing new and legacy systems to coexist without requiring a potentially disruptive full cutover, and design software and integration patterns to be adaptable so we can shift capabilities and swap underlying
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this response.
Page | 3

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Replacement Model for VA.gov
technologies as new platforms and approaches emerge. As responsibilities among VFS teams become clearer and workloads become safer to operate independently, Oddball will work with VA to refine or remove outdated governance workflows that no longer meaningfully reduce development or deployment risk. By carefully separating application boundaries, Oddball will reduce over-permissioned access, enable VFS teams to deploy applications safely and independently, and preserve the continuity of VFS by preventing localized issues from cascading into broader outages or disruptions, while maintaining our 99.99% uptime. AI Agents to Accelerate Delivery: To rapidly identify how these application boundaries should be divided, Oddball proposes using AI agents to analyze code, data flows, and ownership patterns, providing a clear blueprint for which boundaries should be separated first and which relevant dependencies need to be untangled, reducing manual discovery and planning. The AI agent will provide assessments, give recommendations, modify and create new code, and generate tests and configurations with designated monitoring and alerts. This blueprint can also be used when new capabilities are introduced alongside legacy systems. By tasking AI with identifying which natural architectural boundaries to modernize first, teams can continue to iterate and deliver value in the current environment while introducing enhancements and architectural shifts incrementally over time. This level of automation results in clearer workload ownership, a safer way to migrate new capabilities, and helps VFS teams gain autonomy over their own applications as the ecosystem becomes easier to operate without cross-team interference. For Veterans, this means faster delivery of new features and services, fewer interruptions and errors, and a more consistent and secure experience when using VA.gov. Oddball also proposes using AI to help teams re-architect or build applications faster and more consistently using a shared AI jumpstarter, a model that will provide repeatable workflows and standardized system prompts integrated with VA.gov patterns and guidelines. In addition, Oddball will stand up AI coding agents to help teams generate and implement code more quickly using the approved VA.gov patterns and guidelines, giving VFS teams a strong baseline for building within the ecosystem while still allowing product-specific customization that preserves a consistent look and feel across VA.gov. These AI agents can also support teams new to the VA ecosystem by getting them up to speed faster (e.g., accelerating pull requests, tests, documentation, implementation of approved design patterns, writing portions of code) while still aligning outcomes with VA.gov standards and expectations. By standardizing how teams start building on VA.gov, and using AI coding agents to quickly generate code, we will reduce time spent interpreting guidance, reworking implementations, and navigating inconsistent or outdated development workflows. For Veterans, the benefit is a more stable and secure digital front door with fewer service disruptions caused by tightly coupled systems, and faster delivery of improvements to the tools and information they rely on. Standardizing the Use of Bulkheads: As VA.gov expands to provide Veterans with more benefits and healthcare services, it must also handle uneven demand, where certain tools or services experience spikes in usage without warning (e.g., claims activity, facility closures, enrollment periods, benefit updates). Without strong separation, and if workloads are still operating as a monolith, these spikes can degrade performance across unrelated parts of VA.gov, even when those services are functioning normally. To address this, Oddball proposes expanding and standardizing our use of bulkheads by intentionally separating applications within a shared environment into smaller, self-contained components that can scale and evolve independently. Bulkheads establish a clear separation of workloads that are in a shared namespace, allowing each separated component to be deployed, tuned, and scaled based on its own demand. Splitting a system into bulkheads also provides code isolation, so if one service becomes overloaded or fails, the issue is compartmentalized within that bulkhead rather than cascading across VA.gov and causing widespread disruption. To standardize the use of bulkheads across VFS teams, we will work in phases, providing every team with the same repeatable pattern, having them submit a simple intake where the Platform team will then help them apply the standard bulkhead setup, and then gradually moving toward self-service once the pattern is proven. Over time, VFS teams will be able to request or create bulkheads using a consistent template with clear guardrails and expectations, while Platform teams stay focused on exceptions and oversight. This will also improve performance and delivery velocity, as teams can make changes within their own bulkheads without creating unintended impacts elsewhere in the broader application. With failures contained and the scope of impact reduced, Oddball will work with VA to begin sunsetting legacy controls that existed primarily to prevent one team's release from impacting others (e.g., cross-team deployment approvals, centralized release coordination, manual review gates), allowing teams to ship changes faster while maintaining security and compliance. By using bulkheads, VA.gov will become a more resilient, scalable environment that can support continued growth in website traffic, new capabilities, and additional teams, while maintaining stability for Veterans to access their benefits and healthcare services. Internal LLMs to Establish Standardized Workflows: To support VA.gov modernization while prioritizing privacy, governance, and repeatability, Oddball proposes an internal Large Language Model (LLM). In a highly
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this response.
Page | 4

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Replacement Model for VA.gov
regulated environment like VA.gov, internal LLMs will enable the safe introduction of AI capabilities, allowing teams to work with PII in a controlled environment. By deploying an internal LLM trained on the VA ecosystem (e.g., terminology, operating constraints), we will establish repeatable, standardized workflows that serve as a dictionary for the ecosystem, driving faster development and more consistent outcomes across applications. Oddball will standardize the LLM as a shared Platform service for other teams to use. Rather than allowing each team to independently adopt their own models, which could introduce fragmentation among applications and inconsistent outputs, we will work with these teams to review their suggested enhancements and implement them if approved. VFS teams will use the repeatable, standardized workflows produced by the internal LLM to provide context and guidance. This includes shared instruction sets and system prompts, and the use of supporting infrastructure such as Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers that allow the model to integrate cleanly with VA.gov platform assets (e.g., form patterns, VADS) to gather context and invoke actions, and MCP wrappers to standardize the way the LLM is able to discover and use content for downstream services. An internal LLM also gives developers and AI coding agents direct, governed access to the same standards, patterns, and examples, enabling them to produce compliant code on the first try and reducing time spent in manual review loops and rework cycles. By introducing an LLM, VFS teams will be able to deliver AI-enabled services to Veterans more rapidly and efficiently, including chatbots that guide users through VA.gov navigation, provide access to information, and securely streamline file submission processing. Context-Aware Agentic AI for VA: Oddball will incorporate agentic AI agents with contextual awareness of VAspecific governance standards (e.g., CLIPEE) and expand them to continuously evaluate the full scope of governance requirements (e.g., accessibility, UX/UI, automated tests, code quality, security checks, documentation). These AI agents will eliminate much of the heavy lifting from manual reviews so teams can focus on other areas of improvement, and provide near-real-time, actionable feedback to teams as they build and deploy applications. As the first checkpoint, the AI agent will perform an initial pass/fail or yes/no evaluation against defined governance requirements, surfacing issues before they become late-stage blockers. As the Chief AI Officer (CAIO) team establishes AI guidelines across VA, Oddball will work closely with the CAIO to ground our AIenabled governance model in approved standards and support VA's long-term AI strategy. We will also coordinate with the VA Privacy Office as it develops ethics and governance policies centered on how AI uses, protects, and limits access to Veteran data. Through coordination with both of these teams, Oddball will use our AI model to not only improve how we build and operate products, but how we can more effectively use AI within the product itself. Reduce Manual Bottlenecks: VA.gov Platform operations and governance processes are primarily based on people and manual intervention, requiring human touch points (e.g., reviews, approvals, configuration checks, coordination across teams), which slows the delivery of applications and introduces risk as the number of services and teams continues to grow. Although this model works, Oddball acknowledges that we must keep pace with increasing demand without dramatically increasing headcount, shifting our focus to removing as many manual, human touch-points as possible by increasing automation (e.g., AI-enabled workflows) across the delivery lifecycle. We have already demonstrated this solution in Case Study #2 below, where we replaced a "conveyorbelt" style continuous deployment (CD) pipeline with a staged, production-gated pipeline, automating application approvals and reducing the need for manual intervention. For the VA.gov modernization, Oddball will consider known pain points, lessons learned, and areas of friction to evolve governance processes by implementing automated, repeatable frameworks that are enforced consistently and with less human intervention. By codifying governance requirements into automated, repeatable frameworks, Oddball will remove manual touchpoints, reduce deviation from set standards, shorten review cycles, and save time without adding personnel. With fewer manual governance bottlenecks, multiple delivery teams can independently build and deploy to VA.gov simultaneously, enabling Veterans to access improved functionality for critical services faster and more securely. Enhanced Guardrails for VFS Teams: Oddball will further define and refine clear guardrails that help support VFS teams in building within the VA.gov ecosystem. These refined guardrails will serve as enforceable development standards, with very few exceptions, so teams will not negotiate foundational requirements on a caseby-case basis. To streamline compliance with these standards, Oddball will expand and improve standardized templates for onboarding and development, providing teams with approved patterns for building on VA.gov so all Veteran-facing products remain consistent and reliable. Teams will be expected to strictly follow these templates, and any deviation from the outlined standard will require the application to undergo vetting, preventing changes from introducing risks. We will also build on existing shared UX tools and resources (e.g., VADS) and introduce automated conformance testing to continuously validate products against the Design System and other shared components. Coupled with this idea is the need for delivery contracts to be staffed to match the operational realities of VA.gov, with the expectation that teams have the full capability required to build, deploy, and operate within
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this response.
Page | 5

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Replacement Model for VA.gov
the VA.gov ecosystem. Today, some teams arrive without key roles needed to deliver services independently (e.g., lacking a dedicated DevOps expert). When this happens, the gap is often backfilled by the Platform team, creating bottlenecks, stretching already limited capacity, and introducing risk to future veteran-facing products as the ecosystem grows. To remedy this, Oddball's refined development guardrails will be enforced so incoming teams have a clear, standardized model to follow, and reduce the likelihood of exceptions that require additional Platform support. With stricter development guardrails, Oddball will create a predictable path for delivery and adequately staffed teams, keeping the VA.gov ecosystem secure, maintainable, and resilient, reducing the risk of Veterans encountering delays or site instability during time-sensitive periods. Architectural Review Board: Oddball proposes establishing an Architectural Review Board to serve as a centralized body that guides teams on what is supported, what is feasible, and the "dos and don'ts" across application design and delivery (e.g., functionality, architecture, code standards, API integration patterns, security requirements). Separate from the Collaboration Cycle, where VA and VFS teams work with Oddball to obtain guidance on design, content, information architecture, accessibility, research, and analytics, the review board will serve as a mentor throughout the development lifecycle and provide clear direction on how teams can build within the VA.gov ecosystem. Beyond guidance, the Architectural Review Board will protect the integrity of the VA.gov ecosystem by consistently implementing and enforcing the automated governance structure, making sure teams build within its defined boundaries. The board will also define even tighter development guardrails requiring teams to meet these baseline expectations before entering review, reducing time spent on preventable issues and improving the quality of applications that reach implementation. When teams are given an enforceable, AI-driven governance model and clear guardrails, they can consistently and securely build Veteran-facing services, reducing the chance that VA.gov will suffer from avoidable regressions and that Veterans will experience site outages or confusing inconsistencies when these services are published.
1.2.3 Security Table 5. Improving Security of VA.gov
Security Stewards: Coupled with enforceable guardrails and centralized security controls, Oddball seeks to grant all VFS teams with greater autonomy over the development and deployment of their applications. To achieve this, Oddball proposes introducing Security Stewards. These Stewards will be Oddball employees well-versed in security operations and serve as embedded partners and mentors, helping new teams navigate platform and security requirements, raising concerns when they see issues with the team's work, and providing actionable remediation guidance to developers. This allows incoming teams to adhere quickly to security standards and processes, reducing the likelihood of downstream rework or non-compliance, narrowing the scope of exemptions to rules, and empowering teams to own the development and deployment of their applications within clearly defined boundaries. Further, the Security Stewards will oversee the implementation of active Static Application Security Testing (SAST) when apps are not running to detect vulnerabilities early in development, and Dynamic Application Security Testing (DAST) when apps are running to detect injection, configuration, and other issues. Continuous ATO: To strengthen this model, Oddball will implement a continuous ATO to keep VA.gov auditready even as Veteran-facing applications, services, and Platform infrastructure evolve. Instead of treating the ATO as a singular event, security and compliance artifacts will be generated and maintained as part of normal development, testing, and deployment workflows. This will reduce last-minute audit work and improve traceability by providing a consistent, verifiable trail for security and compliance decisions. With a continuous ATO, we will strengthen the security of VA.gov by proactively identifying security gaps before they become disruptive, costly, or delay releases, leading to fewer service interruptions and fewer delays in delivering critical updates to the tools and information Veterans rely on. Standardize SBOMs: Oddball understands that VA's goal is to reduce not only the visible disruptions Veterans experience, but the behind-the-scenes operational complexity that increases the risk of VA.gov downtime. An effective way to achieve this is by standardizing Software Bills of Materials (SBOMs) across the VA.gov ecosystem. A standardized SBOM will provide an up-to-date inventory of the software components and versions running across VA.gov's applications and services, providing a clearer understanding of the system's current state at any given moment. Pulling from our experience handling the Shai Hulud supply chain attack, this level of visibility into VA.gov operations is critical in preventing component versions from being compromised and exploited, or attackers from running malicious code and disrupting Veteran services. By standardizing how SBOMs are generated, defining required formats, establishing where they are stored, and how they can be operationalized for day-to-day use, teams will be able to quickly search, validate, and act on SBOM inventory when vulnerabilities emerge. This results in rapid vulnerability identification, understanding the scope of impact across the entire VA.gov ecosystem, and confidently isolating or disabling only the affected segments rather than taking broader,
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this response.
Page | 6

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Replacement Model for VA.gov
disruptive action. By standardizing SBOMs to more precisely detect security threats, VA.gov remains a stable and trustworthy digital front door where Veterans can access time-sensitive benefits and healthcare services when they need them most. Expand Maintenance Windows: Oddball will further strengthen the security of VA.gov by expanding the current use of Maintenance Windows and full Blue/Green deployment patterns. Maintenance Windows provide predictable, well-communicated timeframes for performing platform or application updates, reducing unplanned downtime, and allowing VFS teams to execute security patches and configuration changes in a controlled manner. We will expand Blue/Green deployments, formalize workflows and support tooling so teams can test and validate changes in an isolated environment, safely shift VA.gov traffic, and rapidly roll back if issues or security regressions are detected. By expanding Maintenance Windows and Blue/Green deployments across the VA ecosystem, Oddball will make Platform and application updates safer and less disruptive, provide VFS teams with more opportunities for verification and testing, and reduce site downtime for Veterans accessing critical VA.gov tools and services.
1.3 Case Studies from Similar Environments Sections 1.3.1 and 1.3.2 highlight our ability to execute our ideas outlined in Section 1.2 above.
1.3.1 Case Study #1: VA.gov Platform AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service Migration Table 6. VA.gov Platform Case Study: AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service Migration
Oddball plays a pivotal role in modernizing VA.gov's infrastructure, designing and executing next-generation architectural changes like transitioning the vets-api backend from an old EC2/Jenkins "build, release, deploy" (BRD) process, to the modern, AWS cloud-based platform Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), a key step in advancing cloud-native architecture and reducing technical debt. Led by a lean, highly qualified team of Oddball employees, consisting of three engineers and one product manager, our team maintained a unified code base for vets-api, leveraging GitHub and AWS Parameter Store for secure configuration management. The EKS migration was implemented using an iterative rollout strategy, migrating vets-api to EKS one endpoint route at a time, minimizing disruptions, enhancing system stability, and enabling automated scalability. This rollout was supported by a clearly staged migration timeline across environments (Development, Staging, Sandbox, and Production), with structured testing windows from January through March 2023 to validate performance and stability before production cutover. Route-based production rollout began on April 4, 2023, with incremental migration of API endpoints and route bundles to EKS. By early June 2023, our team had successfully migrated 100% of routes to EKS. To protect the security of migration efforts, we built and maintained real-time dashboards used by both VA and Oddball to monitor migration health and performance (e.g., traffic volume, latency, error rates), for quick, safe decision-making. Our team cut over both individual and small groups of routes using routing rules defined in the NGINX configuration, beginning with lower-risk routes and progressing carefully through production. The net effect of Oddball's EKS migration was a meaningful reduction in technical debt, significantly improved resilience and operational efficiency, and an AWS cloud-native foundation that preserves continuity of service while allowing for faster, and safer deployments by VFS teams. These technical enhancements benefit Veterans by directly improving the quality and reliability of the services they use every day, including fewer outages and service interruptions, faster response and processing times for benefits, more consistent access to records and claims status, and stronger protection of their sensitive personal information.
1.3.2 Case Study #2: VA.gov Platform Front End Deployment Improvements
Table 7. VA.gov Platform Case Study: Front End Deployment Improvements
Oddball improved frontend deployments to help VFS teams across the VA.gov ecosystem deliver improvements and new features to Veterans more quickly and reliably by reducing cross-team interference and enabling independent deployment schedules. We switched from large, all-at-once releases on a "conveyor-belt" style CD pipeline, to smaller, reviewed releases on a staged CD pipeline, while helping teams isolate their front-end (FE) application code so they can deploy applications at their own pace and without affecting other teams. If the FE code is not properly isolated, the automatic CD pipeline moves forward with deploying applications across all environments, including production, leading to an increase in unscheduled ad hoc deployments, long build/test cycles, and risk that one team's change in code could unintentionally break another team's application. Therefore, our DevOps engineers focused on engineering changes to the pipeline itself and working with VA to communicate with VFS teams on how to operate within the new guardrails and properly isolate their code as we moved from discovery to execution in late 2024.
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this response.
Page | 7

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Replacement Model for VA.gov
The staged CD pipeline gated production deployment, requiring that application tests receive approval from a VFS team member during staging prior to production. This allows teams to validate their FE code while giving them the autonomy to control the deployment cadence. This process prevented "code stealing" or accidental dependencies between teams, removing parent-level cross-application imports that cause cascading failures, and approving applications to deploy on demand and redeploy when fixes are needed. By implementing a staged CD pipeline, we reduced front-end build times from 12-20 minutes to 2-4 minutes and refined our test selection, cutting 30+ minutes from multiple test runs during continuous integration (CI). However, not all code has been isolated, so if teams building an application are not able prove that their FE code will not interfere with other applications, they are restricted to daily deployments on the original pipeline.
Although Oddball's work to date has been very successful, we continue to track minor improvements to further enhance the deployment process. Two next steps are to isolate any shared code into a Platform-owned, external package with versioned releases, and then fully decommission the old CD pipeline so VFS teams benefit from this lower-risk, single-application deployment model. The improvements associated with our initiative to improve the frequency and security of deployments has been significant, from dramatically reducing the scope of impact of each application, to shortening feedback loops, to cutting emergency work, all of these developments provide a more stable and reliable production environment for VFS teams to deliver critical services to the millions of Veterans who rely on VA.gov.
1.4 User Journey Workflows The User Journey Workflow presented in A-2, is crafted from our experience on VA.gov Platform and depicts how Veterans sign into VA.gov. Each journey can be understood on its own, but together they form a larger, interconnected whole that reflects how identity, verification, and authentication function across the VA.gov ecosystem. First time users creating an account begin on VA.gov with a sign-in call to action owned by the Identity team. From VA.gov, Veterans are directed to their CSP website, such as Login.gov or ID.me, to create an account. During this step, Veterans provide and confirm an email address, create a password, and set up multi-factor authentication (MFA). Once account creation is complete, the workflow returns to VA.gov, where Veterans accept the Terms of Use and are signed in.
After account creation, Veterans are prompted to complete a one-time identity verification process to access additional benefits and authenticated features. Veterans begin on VA.gov in an authenticated state and are directed to the CSP to complete verification. This includes consenting to share PII with VA, such as uploading documents and entering information to confirm identity (e.g., Social Security Number). Trusted agent workflows are available for Veterans who are unable to complete standard verification. This includes Veterans located outside the United States who must use the ID.me trusted agent flow, which supports verification via video calls or UPS for in-person proofing, whereas Login.gov relies solely on USPS for inperson verification. Once identity verification is complete, all subsequent sign-ins follow the standard authentication flow. Most users begin on VA.gov with a sign-in call to action (CTA), then move to their CSP to enter email, password, and MFA. If the Terms of Use have been updated, they will briefly stop to accept the new terms before returning to VA.gov; from there, they will remain signed in until they manually sign out or their session times out.
Across the sign-in and verification journeys, the workflow also highlights areas of dissatisfaction. The actions represented in orange reflect recurring pain points, while those in red indicate more significant sources of frustration. Surveys and other user feedback consistently identify MFA as a friction point in the sign-in experience, with higher dissatisfaction occurring on CSP sites. Within VA.gov, pain points surface when Veterans encounter errors during sign-in or when their session times out sooner than expected, both of which contribute to a sense of instability during critical moments for Veterans.
1.5 Limitations, Risks, and Tradeoffs Table 8 details our limitations, risks, and tradeoffs associated with our ideas described in Section 1.2.
Table 8. Oddball's Limitations, Risks, and Tradeoffs Resiliency
The following tradeoff aligns with Watchtower consistency described in Section 1.2.1:
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this response.
Page | 8

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Replacement Model for VA.gov
· Enforcing Watchtower gold standards improves incident visibility and prioritization by making alerts more actionable but requires teams to adopt rigid logging and monitoring practices, invest in consistent instrumentation, and accept reduced flexibility.
Speed of Delivery The following risks and tradeoffs align with the ideas described in Section 1.2.2, including analyzing service boundaries, decisions to re-architect or build applications, internal LLMs, developing AI instruction sets, and improving governance:
· AI-enabled tooling, including internal LLMs, can reduce onboarding friction and accelerate delivery, but introduces tradeoffs between speed and correctness, requiring strong validation, shared guardrails, and ongoing governance to prevent inconsistent practices, confident but incorrect outputs, and expanded security or privacy risk.
· Stronger governance improves consistency and reduces rework by enabling sustainable, repeatable compliance, but requires upfront standardization and clear enforcement. While this introduces a stricter ruleset, it can be balanced by clearly defining what Platform governs at a higher level, allowing teams the autonomy to make lower-level decisions within their application boundaries.
· If not tightly governed and resourced, incremental modernization using a strangler-fig pattern can create a prolonged hybrid state where both legacy and modern components must be supported and orchestrated together, possibly increasing integration complexity and operational overhead.
· Tighter isolation boundaries reduce cross-team contention and help contain the impact of issues within individual components, but they also introduce routing, coordination, and performance overhead that must be managed to avoid creating new bottlenecks.
· While bulkheads are effective at stabilizing system performance, continued reliance on overprovisioning introduces cost impacts and does not replace the need to understand scalability thresholds and evolving user demands more precisely.
· Reducing human touchpoints increases reliance on automated and AI-driven checks being fully embedded in delivery workflows, which requires ongoing monitoring, periodic reviews, clear communication of expectations, and documented escalation paths to guarantee issues are surfaced and consistently resolved. Security
The following limitations, risks, and tradeoffs align to Section 1.2.3, including security stewards, continuous ATO, and SBOMs standardization:
· While tighter security controls reduce the risk of exposing Veteran data and security incidents, fragmented ownership of those controls can increase operational complexity and ongoing maintenance risk.
· As the Platform scales, security review capacity and staffing constraints may limit support for continuous ATO, necessitating incremental remediation and stabilization rather than broad, immediate adoption.
· As application teams and upstream/downstream services contribute to VA.gov under a more modular, team-owned model, distributed ownership accelerates delivery, increasing the need for consistent coordination and shared communication pathways. Without alignment, teams may interpret security expectations differently, creating onboarding gaps and a fractured customer support experience during integration.
1.6 Lessons Learned from Past Deployments VA.gov has evolved over time from Vets.gov into today's enterprise Platform, with vets-api continuously expanding as teams deliver new capabilities to meet urgent VA policy and mission needs. Like many large platforms that grow quickly, this created natural growing pains, technical debt, complex dependencies, and operational challenges that are difficult to address while maintaining consistent delivery. These challenges became visible during the original PACT Act submission deadline, which drove a significant surge in highvolume submissions to VA.gov due to misalignment between OCTO and other VA stakeholders around readiness and operational planning. This surge in submissions exposed weaknesses in how large file uploads were handled, alongside broader concerns around "silent failures," performance tuning, and incident coordination. Due to high traffic from Veterans trying to access the site, VA.gov was operating at reduced capacity, with some claims-related functionality unavailable to site visitors. Our monitoring and alerting system immediately flagged the incident at 10:34 PM with a DiskFull alert, followed by an RDS disk-usage alert at 10:35 PM. The team immediately began triage, and our engineers identified and resolved the RDS disk-usage issue by 11:00 PM, restoring VA.gov to full functionality within 26 minutes. However, to
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this response.
Page | 9

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Replacement Model for VA.gov
understand the true depth and severity of the issue, Oddball launched an investigation into the underlying cause of the site disruption.
At the center of the most visible platform disruption, we discovered a large-file submission workflow that behaved poorly under load. Our teams determined that the primary failure mode was tied to Enterprise Veterans Self Service (EVSS), not the core platform itself. This indicated that when Veterans submitted large attachments, the processing path for those attachments was expensive and slow, leading to amplified latency, timeouts, and errors, especially for files larger than 99 MB. To stabilize the Platform and prevent repeat occurrences, we implemented a set of targeted mitigations and architectural improvements:
· Enforced file size limits to 99 MB to keep submissions within the threshold EVSS could reliably handle, preventing overload and reducing timeout conditions.
· Bulkhead isolation for large-file submissions to reduce the impact, facilitating more controlled scaling, and making it easier to tune and troubleshoot without impacting unrelated traffic.
· Infrastructure acceleration via EKS migration for faster operational response, improving elasticity and deployment controls, and helping the team address scaling and stability needs.
With these mitigations and improvements in place, the Platform absorbed load spikes, reduced timeouts, and protected data integrity during periods of high submission volume, resulting in improved site uptime and uninterrupted access for Veterans to VA.gov. Oddball also introduced monitoring and incident response as key aspects of our resolution and implemented real-time observability through Datadog dashboards (A3) to track the critical signals needed to manage PACT Act load and identify regressions.
We identified the need for improved discipline in error handling and testing, stemming from a congressional hearing initiative to identify zero-silent-failures and "low-priority" errors that could produce a broader reliability gap as the Platform scales. This gap in identifying "low priority" errors led to the creation of the current Watchtower team, which now works closely with the Platform team to provide full visibility across the VA.gov ecosystem. Oddball reinforced early performance tuning efforts around Kubernetes resources and web server configurations by increasing resource headroom (e.g., memory, CPU, storage) so systems and resources have more capacity to run, paving the way for us to implement a broader zero-silent-failures reliability initiative. Our quick reaction time to remediating the initial VA.gov issue, coupled with our longterm dedication to implementing the lessons learned from our investigation, provided VA with a more stable and scalable system with fewer zero-silent-failures, and clearer operational control during high-traffic periods, providing Veterans with a more reliable UX when navigating the site or uploading files.
Oddball's second lesson learned occurred during the Government shutdown in October 2025, where deployments on VA.gov Platform were locked down by a production code freeze and a VA mandate. Under OCTO's direction, Oddball needed engineering teams to iterate and test code in development and staging environments, while keeping production tightly controlled and clear for urgent fixes. This shutdown exposed a critical weakness in our "conveyor-belt" style CD pipeline, where we learned it was designed to merge all prior commits from the codebase into a single build for production. This meant that merging an urgent fix automatically pulled all prior saved changes to the code from the code repository and pushed them all into production together, creating a significant risk that untested code would be deployed alongside the fix. To mitigate that risk, we developed a contingency deployment plan, introducing a temporary "shadow branch" or separate code repository (A-4). This shadow branch serves as a controlled, protected source of truth for production and sandbox environments, allowing urgent fixes to be deployed safely without pulling in unrelated code, and keeping the main code repository open for normal development and lower-environment validation. We understood that even during a production freeze, Veterans need critical fixes to their services, especially for issues that block access to benefits, healthcare, or time-sensitive claims. This is why we designed the contingency deployment plan to remain flexible as priorities shift, with the ability to incorporate congressional mandates and updated VA direction without disrupting ongoing delivery, allowing Veterans to receive a stable and secure experience even as requirements and mandates change.
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this response.
Page | 10

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Replacement Model VA.gov Appendix A. Appendix A includes Oddball's graphics associated with our narrative in Sections 1.2.1, 1.4, and 1.6. A-1. Work Isolation + Least Privilege Authorization Model
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this response. Page | A-1

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Replacement Model for VA.gov A-2. User Journey Workflow: VA.gov Sign-In User Journey
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this response. Page | A-2

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Replacement Model for VA.gov A-3. Oddball's PACT Act Datadog Dashboard
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this response. Page | A-3

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Replacement Model for VA.gov A-4. Oddball's VA.gov Platform Contingency Deployment Plan
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this response. Page | A-4

