Response to Notice ID: 36C10B26Q0131 DA01--Replacement Model for VA.gov

Contractual vehicle information: - CAGE: - DUNS: - UEI # Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (ID/IQ) - 8(A) STARS III Contract # - GSA Schedule Contract # - Seaport NextGen Contract # - ENCORE III Contract # Socioeconomic business classification: Business Size: SBA HUBZone: Bonding capacity: MBE & DBE Certified:

6TC84 030990136 SYKMD2LAXJN5
47QTCB21D0150 47QTCA21D0071 N0017819D8444 HC102818D0032 SBA HUBZone Certified Small Business on all NAICS codes HUBZone Certified on 10/30/18 $5M on a single project and $12M in Aggregate State of NJ  Valid until 04/23/24 City of NY Valid until 06/30/25 State of NY  Valid until 06/30/25 City of Philadelphia  Valid until 02/28/26 State of PA  Valid until 02/28/26 State of RI  Valid until 02/28/26

RV Global Solutions Inc., 247 E Front St, Suite 1 Trenton, NJ 08611 Point of Contact: Rahul Gangu, President Phone: 732.802.0009 | Fax: 732.813.1569h Email: rgangu@rvglobalsolutions.com| Web: www.RVGlobalSolutions.com LinkedIn:https://www.linkedin.com/company/rv-global-solutions

1

Team RV Global Solutions Inc., represented by RV Global Solutions Inc. (RVGS) and its teaming partners have more than 20 years of experience in facilities support services, design, development, process improvement, testing, and roll-out of enterprise discovery, asset management and its associated IT Service Management functions. We understand your concern about program execution risk (technical, schedule and cost). Our teaming partners have been supporting the Federal Government as a 'Prime' with demonstrated past performance and they represent a risk mitigation partner for your program. They are ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 20000-1:2011 Certified and CMMI-Dev and Services level 3 partners with several prime Federal contract implementations. In this context, we humbly submit that doing an SBA HUBZone sole-source OR SBA 8(A) sole-source contract with us can be an easy way of engaging Team RVGS on this project. Recognition: RV Global Solutions Inc. has been conferred Small Business of the Year 2023 Award by U.S Small Business Administration (SBA) and Small Business Development Corporation (SBDC) on 02/29/2024 at Clifton, NJ. [FYI: SBDC is funded in part by the U.S Congress through a partnership with the SBA]. We are pleased to share with you our success news article published by the SBA/SBDC: https://www.sbdcnj.com/2024/2023-small-business-success-awardee-rv-global-solutions-inc/
Figure 1: Team RVGS consolidated similar devices on their own switches which involves creating a dedicated path rather than spreading devices across the same switches while still maintaining the advantages of IP network integration.
Facility Clearance (FCL) and JCP: 1. Secret FCL: RV Global Solutions Inc. received "Secret" level FCL on 09/06/22
2

2. Top Secret FCL: RV Global Solutions Inc. Has received a prime contract from the Utah Army National Guard (contract # W911YP23F0031) on 07/02/23. The Contracting Officer on this contract is currently working with Defense Counterintelligence & Security Agency (DCSA) to upgrade our FCL from a "Secret" to a "Top Secret".
3. RVGS received certification under U.S Joint Certification Program (JCP), Approved Militarily Critical Technical Data Agreement, DD Form 2345: a. JCP Certification number # 0080192 b. Expiration date # 02/10/2030
Conducting Free Medical and Dental Camps for the uninsured and under-insured: We instituted a collaboration with the New Jersey Department of Health (NJ DOH) to set up free Cancer screening for the underinsured and uninsured in our society. Some of the services that we have been providing are: Free Cancer Screening of Breast Cancer, Cervical Cancer, Prostate Cancer and Colon Cancer. Having started with New Jersey, we passionately expanded our medical camps to other cities / states across our country such as Seattle, Atlanta, NY and Austin. These cancer screening medical/health camp programs were funded by Center for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC) programs. Our medical/health camps provided a platform for us to educate people on subjects such as diabetes, women health issues, hypoglycemic conditions and other topics that could aid in prevention of malaises. At places such as Seattle, Washington our free medical camps provide counseling services to tackle mental health issues such as depression. You can find out more about how we give back to the society by clicking this weblink: http://rvglobalsolutions.com/rvgs-cares/
Received Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) Audit Compliance: As part of on-boarding a prime T&M contract with the U.S Army, RVGS had to go through a DCAA audit. After performing an audit spanning 6 months, DCAA completed their pre-award accounting system audit on 7/28/20. DCAA stated that our systems were "suitably designed, in all material respects, for award of a prospective contract in accordance with the criteria contained in FAR 53.209-1(f) Standard Form 1408 Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor Accounting System."
TELECOM PAST PERFORMANCE:
Project: UHF/VHF ANTENNA AND RF CABLE INSTALLATION including LMR400 transmission line for URC 300 radios at 312TH Fighter Squadron
 Client Name: U.S Air Force, 14172 W STARFIGHTER ST LUKE AFB, AZ 85309-1826  Prime: RV Global Solutions Inc.  Contract # FA488725C0002  Duration: 03/04/2025 through 04/04/2025  Contract $ value: $4,519.72  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:
 KO Name: Brandon Jourden  Email: brandon.jourden@us.af.mil
 COR Name: Annabelle Arcilla  Email: annabelle.arcilla@us.af.mil  Phone: 623-680-7130
 Scope of work:  Installation of LMR400 transmission line (including jumper or flex cable) and polyphasers inside the COMM Room through customer provided pathway thru customer provided roof penetration/building exit point to the supplied antenna  Mount the antenna to the conduit (weather head mount), secure connections and line, ground antenna/line as needed
3

 Mount tactical radio onto the desired customer location and provide power, ground, and antenna line connections
 Installation of 1 each 200' LMR400 cable from the antenna location to the client network room  Installation of 1 each Polyphaser in network rack to provide grounding and surge protection
for 200' LMR400 cable  Installation of 1 each 10' LMR400 Cable from Polyphaser to client-provided URC300  Installation of 100' of grounding cable from client-provided new antenna to nearest grounding
source  Installation of 1 each ring terminal on each end of the grounding cable to provide ground for
new antenna  Installation of 1 each client provided antenna onto existing weather head
Label & Test Cabling & Connectivity Hardware to assure it meets ANSI/EIA/TIA- 607 (Grounding and Bonding Requirements for Telecommunications in commercial Buildings)  Materials used for this project: URC 300 Radio specification: Radio is the General Dynamics URC 300 LOS (Line-of-Sight) transceiver (J/F 12: 13243) Antennas will be a UVU-130 (This will be mounted on the roof of the building) and a UVU100 (This will attach to the front of the radio). The conduit is 1 and ¼ inches and the weather head extends out two feet. The URC will not be mounted, the URC connected to the antenna on the roof will require a flexible jumper between the radio and the cable that runs to the roof. Previous installations have been performed by Motorola Estimated cable length will be about 40 feet. Total of 100 Feet 10awg THHN Solid (Black) Total of 1 Each LMR400 Pre terminated Cable (200 FT) Total of 1 Each LMR400 Pre terminated Cable (10ft) Total of 1 Each Polyphaser Total of 1 Each 12 - 10 AWG ring terminals
Project: Design, install and program nodes in 11 buildings to provide cable TV to those buildings on the 108 th USAF campus.
 Client Name: U.S Air Force  Prime: RV Global Solutions Inc.  Contract # W50S8B21P0012  Duration: 10/01/2021 through 10/08/2021  Contract $ value: $30,663.24  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:
 KO Name: Ms. Karen E. Foulds  Email: karen.foulds@us.af.mil  Phone: 609-754-4157  COR Name: Mr. Matthew Sturges  Email: matthew.sturges.1@us.af.mil  Phone: 609-754-2092  Scope of work: Designed and delivered a Cable TV (CATV) system for the The 108 th Communications Flight in New Jersey. We converted CATV signals in 12 buildings. The following list details the equipment requested by the 108 th CP to replace the old or non-working devices currently installed.  11x BLN Node, No Return
 Must accept 100VAC  11x SC/APC to SC/UPC MF Adapters
4

 Overall system requirements  All components must be compatible with each other  Must be 100% standalone  Cannot be remotely tapped into
The following list details the requirements requested per guidance from 108 th Communications Flight.
 Cable TV system is being used by the Communications Flight to provide Current News, Weather and Commander's Channel mass notification across the 108 th campus.
 The system shall present no technical security hazard  Install and furnish all equipment listed in approved quote  Remove old nodes where necessary and install new nodes.  Polish fiber optics at nodes for best performance.  Calibrate headend equipment for best performance.  Provide material orders, tracking orders, technician and contractor coordination, monitoring,
job progress, communications with client, final testing, project management & sign off  All persons working on the system to install, diagnose, repair, or survey are U.S. citizens and
they pass a background check with the 87th security forces.
Project: Radar Tower Repairs, 726 ACS tech pad at Mountain Home AFB, ID, (MHAFB),  Client Name: U.S Air Force  Prime: RV Global Solutions Inc.  Contract # FA489718P0030  Duration: 7/15/2018 through 8/15/2018  Contract $ value: $32,692.00  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:  Name: Mr. Angelo DePrimo  Email: angelo.deprimo@us.af.mil  Phone: 208-828-3105  Name: Ms. Jenny Smith  Email: jenny.smith.2@us.af.mil  Phone: 208-828-3105  Name: Mr. Donald Fidler  Email: donald.fidler@us.af.mil  Scope of work: Procure all personnel, equipment, supplies, transportation, tools, materials, supervision, and other items, and non-personal services necessary to perform radar repair.  Repair: Perform the recommended repairs on the radar adapter structure ("Dr. Watson" mod) as noted in section 8.0 of the Select Engineering Services (SES) report dated 15 April 2015 which states "It is recommended that [...] the tie-down end caps be removed, have the corrosion addressed, the mating surfaces tried, and new end caps with drain holes welded in place."  Inspect: Perform an inspection of the tower's upper grating. All hardware shall be tightened if necessary or replaced if missing. The upper grating should be inspected and all hardware should be tightened and replaced if missing. It is recommended that prior to TPS-75 installation on the 726th ACS AB-1368 tower the tie-down endcaps be removed, have the corrosion addressed, the mating surfaces trued, and new end caps with drain holes welded in place.
Project: Wireless Network Installation Service  Client Name: All Tech Consulting Inc., NJ
5

 Role of RV Global Solutions Inc.: Sub-contractor  Contract # AllTech_RVGS_2022  Duration # 01/02/2022 through 01/02/2027  Contract $ value: $4,100,000.00  Contract type: Time and Material (T&M)  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:  Name: Mr Suresh Parakoti  Phone: 732-232-9933  Email: sparakot@alltechconsultinginc.com  Scope of work:
o Assessed site requirements in wireless network installation and support by reviewing the physical environment to identify coverage zones, interference sources, and user density to ensure the network design matched operational needs and minimize performance issues.
o Designed network architecture in wireless network installation and support by mapping access points, controllers, and backbone connections into a structured layout to optimize coverage, reduce dead zones, and support future expansion.
o Configured core network devices in wireless network installation and support by programming routers and switches with IP addressing, Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs), and routing protocols to establish a secure and efficient foundation for wireless traffic flow.
o Implemented security protocols in wireless network installation and support by configuring Wi-Fi Protected Access 3 (WPA3) encryption, firewalls, and authentication systems to safeguard data integrity and prevent unauthorized access.
o Conducted signal testing by using heat maps and spectrum analyzers to measure coverage and interference in wireless network installation and support to validate network performance and identify areas needing adjustment.
o Trained end users in wireless network installation and support by explaining secure login, device connectivity, and troubleshooting basics to operate efficiently and reduce support requests.
o Delivered final documentation in wireless network installation and support by complaining configuration records, test results, and support guidelines and handed over to provide transparency, compliance evidence, and a reference for future maintenance.
Project: Wireless Network Service and Support 1. Client Name: JVR Systems 2. Role of RV Global Solutions Inc.: Sub-contractor 3. Contract # JVR_RVGS_2022 4. Duration # 09/01/2022 through 09/01/2027 5. Contract T&M $ value: $1,817,997.66 6. Contract $ amount received until 12/31/23: $317,997.66 7. Contract type: Time and Material (T&M) 8. Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details: 9. Name: Shetal Venu Jakkam 10. Phone: 469-888-4120 Ext: 102 11. Email: sheetal@jvrsystems.net , info@jvrsystems.net, hr@jvrsystems.net
6

12. Scope of work: o Defined network scope in wireless network installation and support by documenting the given requirement into a detailed plan covering bandwidth, security, and scalability to provide clarity on deliverables and prevent misalignment with user expectations. o Selected hardware and software in wireless network installation and support by procuring certified routers, switches, and wireless access points along with licensed management software to guarantee the reliability, compatibility, and compliance with industry standards. o Installed access points in wireless network installation and support by mounting wireless access points at strategic locations and connecting to the backbone to deliver consistent coverage and balance load distribution across users. o Integrated network management tools in wireless network installation and support by setting up monitoring dashboards and automated alerts for realtime visibility to enable proactive detection of issues and streamline support operations. o Optimized performance settings in wireless network installation and support by tuning channel assignments, transmit power, and Quality of Service (QoS) rules to improve throughput, reduced latency, and prioritized critical applications. o Established support framework in wireless network installation and support by defining helpdesk protocols, escalation paths, and maintenance schedules to ensure timely resolution of issues and sustained network reliability. o Monitored network health in wireless network installation and support by reviewing logs, performance metrics, and intrusion detection systems continuously to maintain service quality and protect against evolving threats. o Applied updates and patches by updating firmware and software regularly to the latest versions in wireless network installation and support to close vulnerabilities and enhance system stability.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PAST PERFORMANCE
Project: Biometric Standards and Support Services  End Client Name: U.S Department of Homeland Security  Prime: Transcend IT LLC. RV Global Solutions Inc. (RVGS) is a 51% owner of the joint venture named Transcend IT LLC. Therefore, RVGS is the Prime on this contract.  Contract # 47QTCB21D0150  Duration # 09/29/2022 to 09/28/2027  Contract $ value: $2,450,991.60.  Contract type: T&M  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:  Name: Ronald JeanBaptiste, Contracting Officer  Email: Ronald.Jean-Baptiste@HQ.DHS.GOV  Name: Jaime Swanson, COR  Email: Jaime.Swanson@OBIM.DHS.GOV  Phone: 703-986-2095  Scope of work: Assist OBIM's Architecture Team and collaborate with other support contractors in implementing processes and a Model-Based Systems Engineering (MBSE) approach into related IXM schemas. To further advance OBIM's MBSE strategy, RV Global shall support efforts regarding integration of Biometric standards (ANSI/NIST ITL-1 and ISO/IEC JTC1) , NIEM, and Data Models into OBIM's architecture. There are significant changes to the Biometrics Domain between different versions of NIEM and between the ANSI/NIST updates. Therefore, it is necessary to assess the gaps,
7

create roadmaps, and prepare a plan to update HART/IDENT to the latest release of NIEM and ANSI/NIST ITL-1 to achieve improvements and benefits through integrated model development and enhance the MBSE value proposition and support strategic collaboration. track and analyze these standards in conjunction within OBIM (e.g., Future Identity (FI), Identity Technology Division (ITD), Identity Operations Division (IOD), Identity Capabilities Management Division (ICMD), and Privacy Office) and outside DHS (e.g., Department of Defense (DOD), Department of Justice (DOJ)), aligning with OBIM Goals and vision. RV Global shall provide technical advice for the development, update, and/or enhancement of biometric, forensic and identity management standards.
 TASK 1: Project Management  TASK TWO: Standards Development Plan: The RV Global shall modify (as required) and
execute the Standards Development Plan (dated February 17, 2021) that contains detailed information pertaining to the structure and future architecture. The plan addresses how RV Global will ensure that the development of the content for the Domain has minimum disruption on OBIM architecture plans.  TASK THREE: Domain Charter: RV Global shall develop and provide the Domain charter as needed for organizations where OBIM represent the Biometrics Domain, and how the organization will submit biometric exchanges for review as explained in NBD Governance Process Plan, dated February 17, 2021.  TASK FOUR: Domain Management Plan and Domain Schema Baseline: RV Global shall modify (as required) and execute the Domain Management Plan (dated February 17, 2021) that describes RV Global's approach to support the day-to-day management and operations of the Biometric Domain. Furthermore, RV Global shall provide a Biometric Domain Schema Baseline to schedule and coordinate support necessary to provide data standards services for Domain management and a baseline of the biometrics domain. RV Global shall provide a draft Biometric Domain Schema Baseline within 60 months after award to the COR and TM for review and comment. RV Global shall provide a final Biometric Domain Schema Baseline to the COR and TM no later than ten (10) business days after receipt of the Government's comments.  TASK FIVE: Operational Support: RV Global shall provide operational support for the OBIM's Biometric Domain. Operational support includes supporting input actions into NIEM.gov, and the support required to facilitate the successful implementation of the standards as related to IXM and the IXM schema to ensure OBIM systems and applications are prepared to respond to data messaging or data interoperability standards developed for the Domain. This support includes conformance for data standards as related to IXM and recommendations for changes to IXM services and data structures to support OBIM interoperability and data sharing with DHS Components.  TASK SIX: Domain Standards Support: RV Global shall provide support to OBIM for managing this Domain and other related data standardization activities. This support includes but not limited to supporting the OBIM standards section in reviewing architecture plans for accuracy, consistency, and functional integration of established data standards. To meet this requirement, RV Global shall prepare and deliver an Enterprise-level Data Standards Execution Plan.  TASK SEVEN: Member List: RV Global shall provide a contact list of all members and organizations represented by the established Biometric Domain COI that will serve as the governing body for the Domain. This shall include indication of a primary point-of-contact who will interface regularly with NIEM Program Management Office (PMO).  TASK EIGHT: Data Dictionary: RV Global shall create a common data dictionary of elements to be included in the Biometric Domain that spans the Federal/State/Local/Tribal/Private/International boundaries represented by the COI and for inclusion into HART Data Dictionary and other HART related artifacts. These organizations
8

can inform, participate, and collaborate to help shape, develop, and refine data standards programs.  TASK NINE: Governance Process Plan: RV Global shall modify (as required) and execute the existing governance processes (dated February 17, 2021) related to release management and publication, including a planned schedule, a unified strategy for Domain development and maintenance as well an establishment of roles and responsibilities of the COI members as defined in the NIEM High Level Version Architecture (HLVA).  TASK TEN: Harmonization and Reconciliation: RV Global shall participate in standards related harmonization and reconciliation activities as much as possible such as, but not limited to, NIEM Business Architecture Committee (NBAC), DSTWG reoccurring meetings, and NIEM Technical Architecture Committee (NTAC).  TASK ELEVEN: Collaboration Support: RV Global shall also produce a "how to" guide for creating biometric standards exchanges and a quarterly NIEM Biometric Domain newsletter on notable changes and work being accomplished on the domain. RV Global shall provide Biometric Domain pamphlets for distribution at meetings and conferences. The guide, newsletter, and other communications items will be developed by RV Global to enhance and improve acceptance and adoption of biometric standards across the DHS and Federal enterprise.  TASK TWELVE: External Data Standardization: RV Global shall provide recommendations to the Domain for incorporation of related external data standardization initiatives as appropriate.  TASK THIRTEEN: Ad Hoc Reporting: RV Global shall provide ad hoc reports about standards at the Government's request as needed.  TASK FOURTEEN: Transition (In & Out)  TASK FIFTEEN: Optional Task (Biometric Standards development and support)
 RV Global shall participate in the regularly scheduled meetings of the International. Committee for Information Technology Standards (INCITS) Technical Committee M1-Biometric Standards meetings. The schedule of these meetings and membership requirements can be obtained at http://www.incits.org/
 RV Global shall review papers, reports and drafts of standards submitted to the M1Biometric Standards Committee to make recommendations to OBIM FI and their impact to OBIM systems. RV Global shall coordinate with OBIM FI to recommend voting positions at M1 and ISO/IEC SC37 meetings. RV Global shall submit the OBIM vote on M1 ballots in accordance with direction from the Program Manager.
 RV Global shall create of a Biometric Standards Requirements document for OBIM, which will include at the minimum the following sections: Biometric Data Format Standards for Collection, Storage, and Exchange; Biometric Transmission Profiles; Biometric Transmission Profiles Required for IDENT/HART; Other Related Standards and Guidance; and Standards for Future Consideration.
 RV Global shall coordinate OBIM FI comments on papers, reports, and drafts of standards with other Federal Agency standards representatives, as required by OBIM FI.
 RV Global shall create biometrics executive summaries or pamphlets on fingerprint, iris, face, DNA, voice, anti-spoofing, and other emerging biometric technologies.
 RV Global shall advise and assist OBIM FI in developing the content for a document repository that describes OBIM FI use of biometrics. This will include such factors as use of common standards, design considerations, policy and privacy decisions and data sharing.
 RV Global shall prepare agendas or meeting minutes, as required to keep OBIM FI advised of significant development in the field of biometric standards and to coordinate and memorialize decisions made internal and external to OBIM
9

stakeholders and other Governmental working groups. RV Global shall prepare Executive Summaries (EXSUMs) for all meetings attended, RV Global shall keep and deliver notes as to items discussed, resulting decisions, action assignments and due dates.
Project: CyberArk Cloud Implementation Professional Services  Client Name: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)) Administration of Children and Family (ACF)  Role of RV Global Solutions Inc.: Prime  Contract # 75ACF122P00023  Duration # 09/30/2022 - 09/29/2023  Contract $ value: $323,111.68  Contract type: Fixed Price  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:  Name: Juan Wooten  Email: juan.wooten@acf.hhs.gov  Phone: (301) 504-7001  Name: Amadou Tounkara  Email: amadou.tounkara@acf.hhs.gov  Phone: (202) 690-6898  Scope of work:
Conjur Enterprise Solution and Architecture Design Workshop
1. This includes: a. Review Conjur Enterprise Secrets Manager solution architecture b. If known, review and prioritize initial use cases OR review Secrets Manager decision matrix to discover initial use case. c. Identify the roles and responsibilities for Customer's project team
2. Conduct one Architecture Workshop, including: a. Review systems requirements and prerequisites for deployment readiness, including leader, candidate and follower server deployment location(s), load balancer configuration, certificate requirements, change management and the Customer's change approval process b. Review requirements and prerequisites for integration with SIEM solution c. Review requirements and prerequisites for integration with HSM
Conjur Enterprise Secrets Manager Deployment
1. Assist with installing and configuring a Conjur Enterprise Secrets Manager auto-failover cluster consisting of a leader and two (2) leader candidates and two (2) followers a. Onboard built-in admin user into Privileged Cloud b. Import Customer provided certificates signed by Customer trusted CA c. Configure cron job for scheduling backups and store backup key in Privileged Cloud d. Confirm Load Balancers are configured correctly
2. Assist with the following integrations: a. SIEM integration b. HSM integration
3. Verify functionality of secrets retrieval from leader and followers
10

4. Test auto failover functionality and restore cluster to operational status 5. Review and execute Upgrade/DR plan 6. Implement Privileged Session Manager ("PSM") connection components for Conjur Enterprise Secrets
Manager command line interface ("CLI") and web UI Policy Management Workshop
1. Review Policy management best practices 2. Review secrets retrieval methods
a. Command Line Interface b. Direct API calls c. Summon d. Client Libraries e. Secretless 3. Review high level steps for application onboarding (template)
Solution and Use Cases Adoption Guidance 1. Conduct eight (8) recurring meetings (for up to four (4) hours each) to work on implementing up to three (3) C^3 Alliance related use cases. (e.g. Jenkins, Ansible, OpenShift. Not to include customer developed applications or applications for which a C^3 Alliance integration does not yet exist) OR one (1) complex use case. (e.g. Kubernetes/OCP integration, internally developed applications, or 3rd party vendor applications for which a C^3 Alliance integration does not yet exist)
Training: CyberArk Training courses provide users with the knowledge required to administer and monitor the solution. Discovery and Planning
1. Conduct a discovery meeting for PAM program, architecture and solution design requirements that includes: a. Review of organizational requirements and drivers to identify objectives, success criteria, priorities, and timeline around PAM program use cases b. Review of critical risks, controls, and roadmap using CyberArk Blueprint recommendations c. Identify the roles and responsibilities for Customer's project team
11

Figure 2: Network administration and network communication support behavior analysis implemented by team RVGS across data centers and the cloud infrastructure
d. Review of enterprise integrations, including directory, authentication methods, monitoring strategies, and other relevant technologies and security tools
e. Review of systems requirements and standard pre-requisites for PAM deployment readiness, including deployment location(s) of components and optional load balancing, and Customer's change management approval process for CyberArk solution implementation
f. Draft the following documentation using standard CyberArk templates: i. CyberArk Architectural Diagram ii. CyberArk Pre-Implementation Checklist
Deployment
1. Assist with installing, configuring, and hardening of the agreed version of the CyberArk PAM components on supported infrastructure. PAM components may include up to: a. 1x Primary Vault b. 1x Disaster Recovery ("DR") or Distributed Vault c. 2x Password Vault Web Access ("PVWA") with optional Customer configured Network Load Balancing d. 2x Central Policy Manager ("CPM") (one active and one passive) e. 4x Privileged Session Manager ("PSM") (for Windows or SSH) with optional Customer configured Network Load Balancing
12

f. 2x Privileged Threat Analytics ("PTA") Servers (One Production and one DR) g. 1x CyberArk Backup Utility 2. Assist with the following built-in out-of-box integrations with Privilege On Premises solution per Customer's direction: a. Vault to Lightweight Directory Access Protocol over SSL ("LDAPS") for user authorization
and/or authentication b. MFA via Security Assertion Markup Language ("SAML") and/or RADIUS authentication to
secure access to CyberArk components c. Vault to Security Information and Event Management ("SIEM") applications for audit logs
through syslog protocol of privileged account activities d. Vault to Simple Mail Transfer Protocol ("SMTP") for email notifications about PAM
activities e. Vault to PTA for data analysis via syslog, PTA with SIEM to send detected incidents as syslog
messages and PTA with LDAPS for Active Directory users mapping and/or authentication f. Vault Key Security for
i. On Premises - with Hardware Security Module ("HSM") integration ii. Cloud - Microsoft Azure Key Vault or Amazon Web Services (AWS) Key
Management Service integration
Expand and Secure
1. Assist with reviewing privileged accounts discovery, management, and reporting capabilities, which may include: a. Accounts discovery scan on a Customer provided test Active Directory Organizational Unit ("OU") to onboard and verify password of up to five (5) test accounts b. Password management for up to five (5) accounts per each
2. Assist with reviewing privilege accounts secure session isolation, detection, and reporting capabilities 3. Perform PAM administration & identity security overview with the Customer, which may include: 4. Provide integrated knowledge transfer throughout the duration of the implementation
Training
CyberArk Training courses provide users with the knowledge required to administer and monitor the solution.
Project: Cyber Crime / Digital Forensics Cloud based intra application development and support  End Client Name: Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Office of Criminal Investigation (CI) Cyber and Forensic Services (CFS)  Role of RV Global Solutions Inc.: Prime  Contract # 2032H5-22-P-00115  Duration # 09/30/2022 - 09/29/2024  Contract $ value: $1,599,109.70  Contract type: Fixed Price  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:  Name: Tametha C. Morrow, Contracting Officer  Email: Tametha.c.morrow@irs.gov  Phone: 240-613-8259
13

 Name: Tiffany Williams, Contract Specialist  Email: Tiffany.D.Williams@irs.gov  Phone: (240) 613-5039
 Name: Ariel Alexander, COR  Email: Ariel.Alexander@ci.irs.gov  Phone: 703-986-2095
 Scope of work: Support IRS's application support operations for the Cybercrimes Data Tool Bench and Digital Forensics Operations on the cloud.  Cybersecurity: Vulnerability scanning, hardening guidance, deployment of Splunk heavy forwarder server and development of cybersecurity documentation  Operational Support:  Install, configure and regression test hardware as well as software in a virtualized, containerized, and orchestrated environment  Support existing forensic tools installed and operational within the environment including but not limited to Nuix Workstation, Nuix Investigate, QuickBooks, ScanWriter, and VMWare Player  Infrastructure Support: Support System and Cloud Administration Activity  Support the operational needs of the CDT Infrastructure, to include monitoring of the hosts, clusters, bandwidth, processing, storage, and other cloud services  Manage operating system and infrastructure installation and configurations necessary to support a cloud-based application  Problem Resolution:  Provide maintenance support for all software identified and approved once it is installed in the production environment  Security Consideration: Creating/updating the required security artifacts based on the scope of each modification  Ensure that the project is compliant with all IRS CI Cybersecurity responsibilities as specified in IRM 10.8  Supplying all artifacts necessary to meet the full compliance requirements of the Annual Security Control Assessment, Information System Contingency Plan, Security Control Assessments, and Enterprise Continuous Monitoring
Project: IT Service Desk Support Services + SME Development support on Ivanti ITSM  End Client Name: U.S Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC.Gov)  Role of RV Global Solutions Inc.: Prime  Contract # 61320622P0020  Duration # 07/01/2022 - 06/30/2026  Contract $ value: $844,261.00 (This is the $ amount for Base Year only: 7/1/2022 to 6/30/2023)  Contract type: Fixed Price  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:  Name: Mr. James Cline, Contracting Officer Representative  Email: jcline@cpsc.gov  Phone: (301) 504-7001  Name: Mr. Greg Grayson, Contracting Officer  Email: ggrayson@cpsc.gov  Scope of work:  Provide the following Tier 1 and Tier 2 IT operations support services including but not limited to:
 Desktop Image Management
 Network Account Management
14

 Telecommunications and Collaboration Systems Management  Desktop Application Deployment  User Provisioning  Desktop Encryption and Device Control  User Profile Management  Provide Tier 1 and Tier 2 levels support for CPSC staff and contractors
 Use the ITSM software Ivanti, VOIP phone system, and direct forward-facing interactions with the CPSC customers for tickets and reports
 Provide escalation paths to CPSC's existing Tier 3 support utilizing the ITSM tool's enabled Incident Management process which may be enhanced
 Provide Tier 1 and Tier 2 levels support which includes operational support, customer support, and troubleshooting (break-fix support) for the following:
 Desktop Systems Administration  Systems Administration  Mobile Device Management  User Provisioning  Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) and traditional laptop Provisioning  Asset Management: Software License Asset Management (SLAM) and its integration with discovery tools  Ivanti ITSM SME is performing the following: Meetings with stakeholders to discuss what works, what we could improve, Refresh Staging and UAT from Production, Upgrade to latest releases (PMS and Heat), Leverage Xtraction for reporting, contractual, Implement Ivanti Voice, Popularize self service, Populate Heat with device data from PMS and Discovery, Integrate with Office 365 email (PMS and Heat), Database maintenance, Documentation We worked to enhance these solutions to streamline and increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the service desk. Doing so enabled the support staff to continuously address the need to focus on providing expert level IT operational support for CPSC staff and contractors. As part of this effort, we also maintained all equipment serviced in the above areas through tracking in CPSC's Property Management System (PMS) and through Lansweeper to ensure assets were consistently on the network. Our helpdesk team of five FTEs provided support for approximately 650 user devices, 60 network printers, 23 copiers, 50 personal printers, and 300 mobile devices using HEAT IT service management software, Mitel/ShoreTel phone system, and direct forward-facing interactions with CPSC customers. Our team worked closely with CPSC to adopt the Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) framework, Help Desk Institute, and other industry best practices wherever practicable. We worked to configure and implement changes to the HEAT platform to better meet service level agreements, and also provided support to requirements for asset management and basic user training.
Our team supported system administration requirements including
 Creating, maintaining and deleting permitted network directories.  Creating, maintaining, and deleting permitted user and computer network accounts in Microsoft Active
Directory and Novell eDirectory.  Managing access rights and user permissions on the network  Managing Microsoft Exchange email accounts including mailboxes, email addresses, and distribution
lists.  Maintaining passwords for network, voicemail, and business application accounts.  Managing polycom teleconferencing hardware and software.
15

Project: Network Administration and Cloud implementation  Client Name: All Tech Consulting Inc., NJ  Role of RV Global Solutions Inc.: Sub-contractor  Contract # AllTech_RVGS16  Duration # Dec 2019 through current  Contract $ value: $826,000.00  Contract type: Time and Material (T&M)  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:  Name: Mr Sunil Prakash  Phone: 732-672-8482  Email: sprakash@alltechconsultinginc.com  Scope of work:  Software license management and license renewal of software such as Adobe Creative Cloud, Solarwinds, Tableau and other enterprise applications software licenses.  Agile Software development: Used `Amazon RedShift' as a fast, simple and cost effective data warehousing. Used to store data inline with historical & archival strategic initiatives.  Security Support services: We reviewed the security policies, protocols and procedures used currently in the architecture. Identified security loopholes in the design and plugged them thereby ensuring a safer application environment.  Planned call transferring and warm transfers using network communication support to let us transfer an inbound or outbound call to our teammates. Allowed warm transfers to speak briefly with a colleague before transferring a call.  Programmed network communication support call whispering and other coaching features to let us coach call agents in real-time without the customer hearing our tips and suggestions.  Analyzed network communication support to evaluate the cost of the possibility of downtime and figured costs for hardware, software and ongoing costs.  Evaluated scalability of each system's ability to scale up or down as our business needs change using network communication support.  Determined if the system handled the anticipated call volume by network communication support.  Ensured our clients always had the most up-to-date software and provided current hardware with network communication support. Limited costs associated with hardware and software required to operate the system.  Migrated on premises Oracle database to Amazon RDS using AWS Data Migration Service. Migrated databases with minimal downtime. Used AWS Data Migration Service to consolidate, transform(ETL & delta-ETL) and migrate data for upgraded services to store and access it on-demand  Leveraged Amazon Elastic Cloud Compute to run applications on AWS cloud. RV Global automated the migration of on-premises Linux and Windows servers to Amazon EC2s via SMS/VM import/export tools and setup Amazon Machine Images to create Amazon EC2 instances thereby helping us gain huge efficiencies of scale  Our managed services team monitored daily site metrics and ensured applications are up-todate and optimally invoke exact intended instance level processes hitting the network traffic at required memory points over regularly clocked average intervals to maintain uptime resilience without any surprises keeping the hardware, software and middleware in sync with the Amazon Cloud services  Database support for Master Data Management (MDM). Assisted in creating data hubs using ETL tools such as DataStage.  Employed `AWS Glue' for a simple, scalable and serverless data integration. We implemented this for use-cases involving media streaming and image rendering based projects
16

 Cryptocurrency: Supporting distributed ledger through block chain.  Used AWS Cloud Shell to execute Command Line Interface (CLI) for running commands to
copy or move data and perform specialized functions such as import/export & backup/restore.  AWS Transfer Family: We used this function to fully manage SFTP, FTPS and FTP services.
Used to move data across IoT's, microservices and virtualized cloud instances in global regions  Cyber Security:
 Threat intelligence collection  Intrusion detection  Threat hunting scenarios  Malicious code analysis  Content and tool development to automate processing of data sets, indicators of
compromise (IOC) identification, statistical analysis, TTP identification, team collaboration, and other labor-intensive tasks  Designed as well as conducted software maintenance programs. A maintenance program for software that entitles the user to a full year of free upgrades designed in order to address and fix issues encountered by users of the application. These upgrades improved the overall performance and functionality of the application. Moreover, they enabled the software to last longer by increasing its life cycle
Project: Network Administration, Network packet integration with Cloud architecture  Client Name: Strategic Resources International, Inc.,, NJ  Role of RV Global Solutions Inc.: Sub-contractor  Contract # SRI_RVGS19  Duration # Jan 2019 through current  Contract $ value: $728,000.00  Contract type: Time and Material (T&M)  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:  Name: Mr Bharath Sreerangam  Email: bharath@sriusa.com  Phone: 732-887-4646  Scope of work:  Used AWS Cloud Fault Injection simulator: A use case for this was automated testing of mobile/IOT devices based product solutions such as whatsapp, facebook, twitter & Instagram integrations on open sourced mobiles such as Librem 5  Leveraged AWS Proton for automated management of container and serverless deployment  Amazon Elasticsearch Service: We used this service to run and scale Elasticsearch Clusters. Expanded data access patterns for easy data tagging.  Software license management of software such as Sitecore, ServiceNow SaaS and other enterprise software licenses. Leveraged `AWS Lake Foundation' to build a secure data lake. We also used it to commoditize data.  Enhanced Interactive Voice Response (IVR) feature of an auto attendant. We routed network communication support calls to the appropriate person and department automatically.  Used network communication support analytics of our dashboard to view data about call activity, productivity and customer service.  Automated using network communication support to let customers know the call is being recorded through message. Used the recording for training, evaluated customer service and any other purpose.  Implemented computer telephony interface with network communication support and connected phone's functions to our computer. Used it to create a virtual call center in seconds.  Operated power dialer to automatically dial numbers from a list through network
17

communication support. Saved hours of time by not manually dialing each number.  Connected and integrated our Customer Relationship Management (CRM), helpdesk and other
business software applications with our network communication support.  Employed `AWS Data pipeline' as an orchestration service for periodic data driven
workflows. Used for testing data flows that work with code to produce intended output in the form of xml/html/json/xls.  Implemented AD module, custom authentication provider & custom user profiles to enable user segmentation and targeting marketing activities to extranet users  Used Java and web technologies to build and maintain enterprise applications  Web Content Creation Automation
 Developing data architecture for organizing content for corporate websites  Developing data templates, implementing custom workflows  Customizing content editing interface with custom commands and custom fields.  In order to keep the business in line with the recent technologies, we performed regular updates on the applications used as part of the software maintenance support. It allowed us to be in pace with the present technological trends and made sure that our organization leveraged all the benefits of the new technologies.  The software maintenance programs enabled our team to maintain a control over the expenditure on the software. Since the software maintenance program kept us covered for a period, it reduced the investment of the organization's IT department.
Project: Managed Services Provider (MSP): Engineering Equipment Logistics (Hardware and Software maintenance)
 Client Name: U.S Army, Picatinny Arsenal, NJ  Prime: RV Global Solutions Inc.  Duration: 09/14/2020 through 09/14/2023 [Base year + 2 option years]  Contract # W15QKN-20-C-0058  Size: Initial value is: $1,089,542.25  Contract type: T&M  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:
 Name: Ms. Lisa Tanis  Email: lisa.j.tanis.civ@army.mil  Phone: 973-724-9089  Scope of work: This contract establishes and defines the requirements for providing ongoing support to U.S.Army Research, Development and Engineering Center (ARDEC) as a Managed Services Provider (MSP) for laboratory test equipment. RV Global provides logistics support, service, repair, equipment/parts replacement, hardware upgrades, and associated calibration for laboratory test equipment located at Picatinny Arsenal, ARDEC, NJ. The lab equipment is used in performing Environmental Testing, Nondestructive Testing and Evaluation of Army materiel (such as bullets and pistols used by the war fighter), and DOD Tactical Behavior Research. Complete logistics support includes but not limited to:  Exploring in our Cloud sandbox environment: We are exploring AWS Cloud Internet of
Things (IoT) Greengrass 2.0 to build and manage IoT apps with open source run-time for proactive/preventative maintenance of the engineering equipment.  Vetting and identifying reliable suppliers of parts to highly sophisticated engineering equipment  Identifying technicians to resolve complicated technical calibration problems  License renewals of hardware and software used by ARDEC users.  Arranging the supplies and collaborating with the technicians  Shipping supplies/materials and receiving them
18

 Safely storage of the supplies at our local warehouse and complete ownership of RMA (Return Merchandize Authorization)
 Safe Transportation of supplies/materials to and from the U.S Army base to the destination  Safe disposal of engineering waste materials in accordance with federal and state
environmental laws/regulations and in accordance with logistical support best practices.  Performing tasks such as timely replenishment of CO2 gas in engineering chambers by closely
collaborating with trusted CO2 vendors such as AirGas in the transportation, loading, refilling of CO2. We track the arrival times of the CO2 truck, track its progress and keep the customer informed throughout this logistics implementation process.  Logistics execution, goods receipt and goods issue process, shipping and transportation  Logistics Execution: Stock Transfer, Post Change, Physical Inventory.  Deep end to end logistics execution processes to drive the whole design to deliver.  Involved in the configuration of logistics execution shipping by defining basic functions such as shipping points, shipping conditions, loading groups, transportation groups and maintaining proposed shipping points.  Supported issues related to sales and distribution, including logistics execution, material management, finance, invoicing and controlling.  Fostered teamwork, motivation, and coordination of work that allowed the IT and/or engineering logistics team to complete various projects including additional 4PL roll-outs, new process implementations, and other cross-functional projects.  Provided key inputs for global TO-BE logistics process design including ideas for standardizing the delivery goods issues, shipping data, usage of shipment statuses, capturing actual delivery dates, and the inbound logistics process.  Wrote functional specification documents for several interfaces including transportation requests, shipment executions, tracking messages, and master data.
Project: BMC Remedy ITSM Software Maintenance & Training Support  End Client Name: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center, Oklahoma City, OK  Role of RV Global Solutions Inc.: Sub-contractor to Rightstar  Prime on the Contract # RightStar  Contract # Rightstar_RVGS_2016_12  Duration # 01/2017 through 10/2018  Contract $ value: $145,000.00  Contract type: T&M  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:  Name: Mr. Dick Stark  Email: dick.stark@rightstar.com  Phone: 703.242.7598 (Direct) / 703.283.8430 (Mobile)  Scope of work:  Development of BMC Remedy ITSM workflow software complying with ITIL standards  Collaborated with BMC Software to procure the required software end user fixed and floating software licenses for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).  Developed software code to upgrade BMC Remedy ITSM platform from version 8.1 to 9.0 leveraging ITIL best practices.  Integrated ITSM based FAA service desk with BMC Reporting server and third-party products using Java and Web services thereby increasing the efficiency of the FAA service desk personnel.
Project: IT Software Maintenance Services Consulting  Client Name: New York State
19

 Prime: RV Global Solutions Inc.  Agency Name: Dormitory Authority for the State of New York (DASNY), Albany, NY  Contract # IS Programming services 459 Discretionary purchases.  Duration: 2/1/2016 through 1/31/2021  Contract $ value: Discretionary purchases up to $200K for each task order. Any number of task orders
can be issued on this 5 Year MBE Small Business contract  Contract type: IDIQ (Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity)  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:
 Name: Ms. Nicole White  Email: nwhite@dasny.org  Phone: (518) 257-3076  Scope of work:  Application support/development, consulting for JD Edwards/Oracle World 9.3 with specific
training in modules for General Accounting, Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, Financial Reporting (FASTR), Cash and Fund Accounting (Public Sector), Job Cost, Contracting  Change Management and Purchasing, Programming, training, systems design and development of applications in Microsoft SQL Server, SharePoint 2013, ASP.Net 2013, .Net Framework 4.5 and Visual Studio 2013  Consulting, training, implementation support and/or project management for implementing Windows Server, Windows Active Directory, Exchange Server, Systems Center Configuration Manager, Internet Information Server and other Microsoft products  Consulting, training, implementation support and/or project management for improving DASNY's Cyber security networks: McAfee Spam/URL Filtering Appliances & Products, Monitoring Products: HP Insight Manager, NetIQ, Security Products: McAfee IronMail, Checkpoint Firewall/PointSec and IBM IPS  Consulting, training, upgrade implementation support and/or project management for construction Project Management and Scheduling systems using Primavera (Oracle) Contract Management  Ownership of Software License Asset Management (SLAM) to include procuring and managing software licenses.
Project: Preventive Software Maintenance on Overspeed and Directional Detection System Computers  Prime: RV Global Solutions Inc.  Client Name: U.S Air Force, 2740 EAKER DR ELLSWORTH AFB, SD 57706-4829  Contract # FA469018CA008  Contract $ value: $49,309.10  Contract type: FFP  Contract start date # 9/1/2018 through 8/31/2023 [Base + 4 option years]  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:  Name: Mr. Joseph J. Odenwald, SSgt  Email: joseph.odenwald@us.af.mil  Phone: 605-385-6062  Name: Ms. Loretta Watson  Email: loretta.watson@us.af.mil  Phone: 605-385-2988  Scope of work:  Provide preventive maintenance on Overspeed and Directional Detection System USROOM-3, computers, system components, and software.  Downloading software patches for system components on the ODDS computers.  Installing, configuring, programming and maintaining the software and its database
20

 Complete cleaning of Keyboard, mouse and monitor. Confirming the proper operation of keyboard, mouse and monitor.
 Cleaning the induction fan on the computer enclosure. Visually inspecting each ODDS radar speed sensor.
 Carefully removing any debris or dirt that has been accumulated on the sensor or the mounting hardware.
 Noting proper zone distances and speed thresholds to verify the following by approaching the ID Check area in a Vehicle:
 Checking the proper operation of the audible alarm.  Checking if the Radar Speed Sensors on the inbound and outbound lanes are operable and
aimed correctly. Making minor adjustments to the elevation and azimuth at the mounting hardware as required.  Checking if all the Speed thresholds are set as aligned.  Checking if all the display units are functioning properly.  Checking if the accurate speed is displayed on the LCD Monitor.
Project: Cloud Systems Integration using Agile Methodology between ADP and Broadridge systems  End Client Name: Broadridge Financial Solutions [A Spinoff of Automatic Data Processing (ADP)]  Role of RV Global Solutions Inc.: Sub-contractor to Cognizant  Prime on the Contract # Cognizant  Contract # Cognizant_RVGS_2020_10  Duration # 11/2020 through 11/2023  Contract $ value: $70 Per hour  $146,000 Per year (Approximately)  Contract type: T&M  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:  Name: Mr. Bharat Susarla  Email: bharath@natsoft.us  Phone: 732-709-0374 (Direct)  Scope of work:  Building systems integration for ADP applications and Broadridge systems.  Using `Amazon CodeGuru' to find most resource intensive expensive lines of code as part of our ADP systems development services.  Performing techno functional analysis of Broadridge/ADP systems.  Working closely with the ADP development teams to build use cases as part of developing system requirements.  Collaborating with ADP/Broadridge systems architecture team for performance tuning and scalability testing.  Actively involved in systems design using Java code libraries.  Leveraging `AWS CodeBuild' to Build and test software modules.  Using `AWS CodePipeline' to Release software using continuous delivery as part of our CI/CD pipeline strategy.  Using Cloud integration tools such as `AWS CodeCommit' to Store code in private Git repositories.  Using principles of Agile software development for more efficient output on the ADP systems integration projects.  Automation using DevOps: Leveraging CI/CD, testing, planning, project management, issue labeling, approvals and onboarding.  Complying with Broadridge/ADP systems development services core tenets for cloud enablement engine:  Build out foundational building blocks utilizing AWS multi-account strategy
21

 Build security guardrails, compliance controls, infrastructure as code automation, auditing and monitoring controls
 Implement cloud platform backlog that funnel from CBO as common asks from app teams
 Work with our AWS team to understand service roadmap, future releases, and provide feedback
Project: E Commerce Banking applications software maintenance using Cloud  Client Name: Fusion Global Solutions  Role of RV Global Solutions Inc.: Sub-contractor  Contract # FusionGS_RVGS_2020  Duration # 02/2020 through 02/2023  Contract $ value: $540,000.00  Contract type: T&M  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:  Name: Mr. Saravanan R  Email: saravanan.r@fusiongs.com  Phone: 469 782 9413  Scope of work:  Building and deploying E-Commerce (banking) applications on `NoMachine' Dev Cloud Server leveraging J2EE critical functions  Leveraged AWS Cloud Amazon Glue Elastic Views to combine and replicate data across multiple data stores  Developing Information Systems (IS) Toolset and FET products using DevOps and DevSecOps  AWS Well Architected tool: Used it to leverage the APIs that allowed our clients and partners to extend AWS Well-Architected functionality, best practices, measurements, and learnings into their existing architecture governance processes, applications, and workflows. By using the AWS Well-Architected Tool API, we effectively governed workloads across many applications specific AWS accounts, always stayed up to date on the latest best practices, and scaled AWS Well-Architected principles across other teams and systems  Used Amazon Correto tool to deploy applications along with native distribution of JDK with advanced feature extensions with a range of databases such as MySQL, Dynamodb & Aurora & Athena  Leveraged AWS Cloud Amazon Connect as a standard data access interface for connecting to various data sources such as Excel, Flat files & specialized data sources (datalakes)  Designed and implemented elastic critical functions on AWS Cloud infrastructures to ensure scalability is achieved  The two main parameters that were taken into account for sizing the Cloud Server host were:  The number of concurrent accesses in the bank  The method used for dispatching client connections to the child server (direct or tunnel). The first parameter can impact the time necessary to start the session on the child server. The second parameter instead can influence the session performance if the client connection is tunneled to the child server.  We devoted ample time on business process workflow models for each discrete functionality that a planned product line needs to follow right from the rudimentary user story getting evolved into a group of tasks to support features and related epic  LEVERAGED `AWS Cloud 9' to create code stack along with in-memory change compilation of storage structures and variables configuration settings  We continuously innovated our managed services model dealing with complex project components that follow a predefined but flexible `definition of done' journey from null user
22

story via features implementations over rudimentary epic ideas right from delivery to postproduction support model process for our clients and are committed to their utmost satisfaction by regular analytics and monitoring reports on the applications.  Performed periodic code reviews and code repository deltas: Performed regular milestone reviews and checkpoints thereby enabling solid product delivery  Used `AWS CloudArtifact' to store code builds by tags with a specialized cloud enabled versioning system integrated with Swagger  Software maintenance included the process of updating anti-virus and anti-malware software to ensure that the computers had the highest level of protection against security threats. To eradicate the possibility of security vulnerability that can lead to business loss  Defragmented the hard drives, removed unnecessary programs and updated system drivers to improve the operating speed of the computers computer while performing hardware maintenance as well as software maintenance services
Project: Foreign Exchange applications development and software maintenance on Cloud  Client Name: Nityo Infotech Corporation  Role of RV Global Solutions Inc.: Sub-contractor  Contract # Nityo_RVGS_2020  Duration # 04/2020 through 04/2023  Contract $ value: $540,000.00  Contract type: T&M  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:  Name: Mr. Mohammad Zakaullah  Email: contract@nityo.com  Phone: 609-853-0818 Ext: 2183  Name: Mr. Sanjeev Jha  Email: contract@nityo.com  Phone: 609-853-0818 Ext: 2182  Scope of work:  Scalability: We determined and tracked all decision points such as application and system processes uptime/downtime requirements & parallel run mode that are critical to have an application scale up or down as per changing business requirements and experimental product calibrations  Performance of the AWS stack that is integrated with the application stack, data layer and middleware were kept independent and autonomous from the external dependencies of internet by wise use of firewalls and gateways to provide security to have a robust future state of architecture that is designed keeping in view best practices for frameworks integration & workflows extensibility  Database implementation and maintenance: By routing traffic to available EC2 critical functions, downtime due to data center outages was negated, and dynamic site scalability allowed for spikes in traffic to be handled without customer impact.  Development of workflows and processes: To improve speed, static assets such as images,javascript, css, and fonts-proactive pre-emptive were cached on Amazon CloudFront, AWS' content delivery network, to ensure rapid global delivery. This had the added benefit of reducing the amount of requests the application servers were handling at one time, creating a smoother, faster browsing experience for each customer  Our managed services team monitored critical functions that impact the daily site metrics and ensured applications are up-to-date that optimally invoke exact intended instance level processes hitting the network traffic at required memory points over regularly clocked average intervals to maintain uptime resiliently without any surprises keeping the hardware, software and middleware in sync with the amazon cloud services critical functions
23

 We employed AWS internal and external cloud utilization factors such as number of instances/memory requirements per instance to determine cost variances across relevant areas of the infrastructure capacity as per game plan
 Employed `AWS Step Functions' for Coordination of distributed applications. Used to implement iterative steps(operations) within a specific business logic(lambda function).
 We continuously monitored usage of memory, space and process requirements: Tracked events around scalability to determine failures or failovers using components such as AWS Cloud Watch
 Our managed services cloud development team used a defect management system (JIRA subversion) to link each feature/userstories/tasks in a bug or code anomaly (software defect) in an AWS compatible code compile & deploy tool such as swagger.
 Testing critical functions in AWS Cloud implementation using Elastic Load Balancing. Incoming traffic is distributed across multiple Availability Zones on Amazon's Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)
 Our team put together an automation strategy with Jenkins, Docker containers, Git-Hub, Kubernetes around development and monitoring.
 Used DevOps for seamless integration and efficient migration of code  Leveraged `AWS Eventbridge' as a Serverless event bus for SaaS apps and other incorporated
AWS services within the AWS Stack. Used for incorporating messaging architecture around data, input/output layers with help of orthodox system and custom flexible software stacks  Used `AWS Fargate' for Serverless compute on containers. We utilized this feature to build virtualization around architectures.  Network virtualization and cloud implementation: Business rules separating API, Services and data vis-a-vis application performance are central to our architecture blueprint. Common examples are rules engines, metadata repositories and data cache management approach  Carried out periodic hardware maintenance as well as software maintenance to prevent the computers from slowing down and becoming sluggish. Periodic checks helped us address as well as optimize the efficiency of the computers  Our team of software maintenance and hardware maintenance technicians designed a hardware maintenance calendar to organize multiple things such as the extent of the use of a computer, the type of process performed on the computer, etc to be up to date with the upgrades
Project: Banking regulatory rules implementation using Cloud Computing  Client Name: TalentWave at UBS  Role of RV Global Solutions Inc.: Sub-contractor  Contract # TalentWave_RVGS_2019  Duration #  This contract started on 10/28/2019  This is a yearly contract extendable every year (subject to the contract being funded by the end client)  As of 11/30/20, the customer Manager has informed us that the contract is good through 12/31/21  Contract $ value: $93.57 Per hour which equates to  $194,625.60 Per Year  Contract type: T&M  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:  Name: Ms. Jovana Mirkovic  Email: UBS@talentwave.com  Phone: 720-548-1236  Scope of work:  Working on Cloud applications using NX Client/ NoMachine Dev Cloud. Using Amazon RDS on VMWare, we automated on-premise database management. Used to virtualize the data
24

stack across the board utilizing age old concepts such as replication, fail-over & backuprestore process.  Software development using Spring Framework, messaging, Hibernate and Oracle primarily for server side development on Unix/Linux in a high volume, low latency distributed architectureWork  Used `AWS Amplify' to build & deploy mobile and web applications. Used to mass broadcast api and api service calls for a robust integrated and automated applications experience  Re-Usability: All engaged cross-domain teams incorporated re-usability as a guiding principle in the architecture pattern for every project right from the component level to individual module lambda function level  Conducted automated software testing and continuous integration of various Cloud SaaS modules: Ensured all deliverables met Minimum Value Proposition (MVP) criteria for business relevance to maximize usability for product users  Code refactoring of complex monolithic applications built on struts framework and java server pages (jsp): We focused on usability of the product UI components across the board to give preference to align business goals and disciplined functional process based approach to technical code refactoring goals alignment. We enforced usability by leveraging common library modules, callable class interfaces hierarchies and cross platform integrations (SDK's).  Front end refactoring and development using JSP, Tag Libraries, Java Script, HTML and XML: Core application use-cases were implemented by adopting a standard based application platform(feed file based, batch or real-time) integration and automated services portfolio management adhering to the Amazon Web Services (AWS) well architected framework principles & pillars of security, scalability and cost optimization handled via a delicately balanced custom Managed Services team  Using AWS Elastic Load Balancing, we distributed incoming traffic across multiple Availability Zones on Amazon's Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)  By routing traffic to available AWS Cloud EC2 instances, downtime due to data center outages were negated, and dynamic site scalability allowed for spikes in traffic to be handled without customer impact  Rewrite Legacy applications using latest technologies such as Springboot, Hibernate, React JS. With `Amazon API Gateway', we built, deployed and managed API's. Used to dissect API's to various endpoints in terms of requests to responses and back from target to source if bi-directional network traffic for data across regions, networked across virtualized server IP configurations of clustered servers  Used `Amazon ElastiCache' as an in-memory caching service. We employed it to reduce algorithm implementation for faster efficient data retrieval which is easy on memory, central processing unit limits  Defined, developed and maintained microservices software: To improve speed, static assets such as images, JavaScript, css, and fonts were proactively cached on Amazon CloudFront, AWS content delivery network thereby enabling rapid global delivery. This had the added benefit of reducing the amount of requests the application servers were handling at one time, creating a smoother, faster browsing experience for each customer.
Project: Minor Renovation: Adding IT & Electrical run to support cubicles  Client Name: U.S Department of Justice, Mt Laurel, NJ  Prime: RV Global Solutions Inc.  PO # 15UC0C18P00002641  Contract start and end dates: 10/5/2018 through 10/12/2018  Contract $ value: $10,730.00  Contract type: FFP  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:
25

 Name: Mr. Jarrod January  Email: Jarrod.p.january.civ@mail.mil  Phone: Office: 804-416-9301  Scope of work: The work includes the removal of the closet at the reception area 200 patching the wall and adding an IT and electrical run to support one cubicle. In the 208/209 office we remove the dividing wall, leave a header, and close up a door opening. We patch the carpet using the owner's furnished carpet.
OUR DIFFERENTIATOR: PRIME FACILITIES ENGINEERING PAST PERFORMANCE:
Project: Environmental Testing  Client Name: Sandia National Laboratories (U.S Department of Energy), ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87185  Prime: RV Global Solutions Inc.  Duration: 09/08/2020 through 09/07/2025 [Base year + 4 option years]  Contract Purchase Agreement (CPA) # 2191974  Size: Task orders shall be issued on this Contract Purchase Agreement (CPA)  Contract type: CPA  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:  Name: Mr. John Paul Duman  Email: jpduman@sandia.gov  Name: Mr. Todd Sakol  Email: TSOKOL@sandia.gov  Phone: 505-284-6610  Name: Mr. Nathanial Roberts  Email: NDROBER@sandia.gov  Phone: 505-844-5176  Scope of work: Here is an example of a competitive task order won by RV Global Solutions Inc. (RVGS): Provide environmental test services to supplement SNL's internal capabilities. Single part testing will be requested, and services will be scheduled on an ad-hoc basis. Team RV Global must be registered with the Department of State to handle export control parts covered by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR). The facility must be accredited by AL2A or NVLAP. Preliminary data on all tests including compliance with tolerances shall be provided to SNL personnel on site for approval prior to changing the test axis or facility. Final test reports shall be delivered within 10 working days and shall include raw electronic files from all test equipment in addition to an interpreted report.  Logistics execution, goods receipt and goods issue process, shipping and transportation  Logistics Execution: Stock (sensitive DOE equipment classified as ITAR) Transfer, Post Change, Physical Inventory.  Deep end to end logistics execution processes to drive the whole design to deliver. Safe transportation of the sensitive DOE equipment back to Sandia laboratories for reintegration. In the event of test equipment failure, we are responsible for identifying an available replacement either within our facility or an alternative lab within the United States no less than 10 working days from the originally scheduled date. Overtime, such as 2nd shift, 3rd shift or weekends is acceptable in the event of our primary test equipment failure with prior written approval (e.g., email) by Sandia's Delegated Representative (SDR). Overtime under normal operations may be required to meet schedules or to protect parts by ending the day in a more physically protected configuration. This option may be extended by any Sandia employee at the RVGS facility or remotely by the Sandia Delegated Representative (SDR). All these requests will be in writing (e.g., email) and include at a minimum the Sandia Delegated Representative (SDR) and a designated point of contact within our facility. All test facilities shall include, test
26

equipment, qualified operators and RVGS test reports for the following:  Thermal Chamber  Electrodynamic Shaker (Random Vibration and/or shock)  Altitude (or TVAC at ambient temperature)  Centrifuge (please quote on all sizes eight feet and larger)  Shock (e.g., Resonate Beam, Resonate Plate)  Machining (e.g., Fixture modiFication or repair)

Here is an example schedule of a task order requesting environmental testing at our facility on this CPA:

Thermal Chamber

Weeks

Days Start Date

Electrodynamic Shaker Altitude / TVAC Centrifuge Resonate Beam

Weeks 3 Days Start Date

Weeks 3 Days Start Date

Weeks

Days Start Date

1 Weeks

Days Start Date

11/2/20 11/4/20
11/9/20

Project: Inspection, remedial repair and calibration of Optical Comparators  Prime: RV Global Solutions Inc.  Client Name: U.S Army, Joint Manufacturing and Technology Center (JMTC), Rock Island Arsenal, Rock Island, IL 61299-6400  Contract # W9098S19P0037  Contract $ value: $21,600.00 Per year. This can go up if parts need to be replaced  Contract type: T&M  Contract start date # 12/8/2018 through 12/7/2023. [Base + 4 option years]  Contract Specialist:  Name: Mr. John Jacobsen  Email: john.e.jacobsen16.civ@mail.mil  Phone: 309-782-5149  Contracting Officer Representative COR/POC details:  Name: Mr. Scott M Hoffmann  Email: scott.m.hoffmann2.civ@mail.mil  Phone: (309)782-7004  Scope of work:  Perform inspection, remedial repair and calibration to provide reliable machine operation for Optical Comparators owned by Rock Island Arsenal  Ensure machine accuracy and repeatability is formally documented IAW ANS/ISO/IEC 17025:2005 and ANSI Z540-3  All hazardous wastes, acid and contaminated material generated by the calibration efforts will be disposed of IAW applicable Federal, State and Local laws and regulations.
Project: BPA for Calibration/Preventive Maintenance of ARDEC Engineering Equipment  Client Name: U.S Army, Picatinny Arsenal, NJ  Prime: RV Global Solutions Inc.  Duration: 1/7/2017 through 1/6/2022 [Base year + 4 option years]  Contract # W15QKN-17-A-0038  Size: Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA). Task orders valued up to a Max of $7,000,000.00
27

 Contract type: BPA  Contracting Officer and/or COR/POC details:
 Name: Mr. Alexander Plotkin  Email: alexander.plotkin.civ@mail.mil  Phone: 973-724-3343  Scope of work: Provide maintenance, repair, calibration and replacement services for environmental laboratory test equipment located at ARDEC to include test measurement and diagnostic equipment (TMDE). The lab equipment (electrical, electronic, mechanical and instrumentation engineering) is used to provide temperature-humidity and physical conditioning of ARDEC/Army material in the range of minus 100 degrees Fahrenheit to plus 200 degrees Fahrenheit. The following is a sample of some laboratory equipment that shall be maintained, repaired or replaced under this contract.  License renewals of Hardware and Software used by scientists and engineers at Picatinny
Arsenal.  Liquid CO2 and CO2 Tank Storage  Power Amplifiers with associated cooling, shock, and vibration components  Environmental Chambers such as: Temperature/Humidity, Altitude, Pressure, Salt Fog, Shock,
and others.  Electrical equipment (Environmental Chambers, Vibration, and Shock Equipment).  Tank Storage Liquid We won 5 Task orders over the past few months. Here are some examples of recent task orders that we won on this BPA at Picatinny Arsenal:  Task Name: Procurement of Software License + Installation of Motion Capture System +
Training on its usage/functionality to the ARDEC users (Used for intrusion detection and motion sensor) $ Value: $149,134.82  Task Name: Certification, and Preventive Maintenance and calibration of Jaguar $ Value: 13,074.25  Task Name: Hexagon: Calibration and preventive maintenance of TP200 PROBE UPGRADE OPTIV 443 $ Value: $17,956.25
APPROACH OF TEAM RVGS FOR IMPLEMENTING YOUR REQUIREMENTS:
Network Administration / Telecommunications tasks performed by team RVGS: Engineering: Our engineering and technical project management team will provide a wide variety of solutions to your agency in multiple disciplines including engineering, operations, construction, logistics, and strategic planning. We specialize in anticipating our client's needs and determining necessary engineering solutions to challenges that arise. The end result is a custom-tailored solution and strategic plan specific to our customer and their needs. Our engineering solutions span multiple voice and data networks that included both internal and external networks of our customers. Our goal is to provide telecommunications engineering services throughout all the stages of the network life cycle from the planning and development phase, installation, through system upgrades, and optimization, to decommissioning entire systems. We have proven expertise and are a group of talented professionals that will meet your needs at every step of the telecom network development process.
Operations: Team RVGS personnel have been responsible for the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the agency-wide voice/data networks and telephone / voicemail systems for over 20 years. We have supported more than 30 Government agencies with their telecom needs, including moves, adds/changes, cabling and installation and maintenance of numerous voice/data/PBX systems.
28

We have provided circuit switched services, bandwidth management services, and network management services that support the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) and the Department of Defense (DOD). We have managed the data/voice communications infrastructure for the FAA National Airspace System through LINCS and FTI government contracts creating a backbone network with nearly 14,000 circuits connecting 5,000 FAA facilities.
SATCOM: Team RVGS implemented the second longest SATCOM hop in the FAA NAS at a distance of 51 miles. Our employees have significant SATCOM experience including:
 Performed maintenance and facility equipment upgrades as required over the entire CONUS area.  Over 30 years' experience in Direct Broadcast Satellite (DBS) and Fixed Service Satellite (FSS) and  Managed FAA Telecommunications Satellite (FAATSAT) and FTI-SAT networks which enables the
FAA to utilize satellite, microwave or telecommunications technology creating hybrid-such as environments to maximize efficiencies and remove system weaknesses. We supported the Defense Department's Deployable SCAMPI contract, a satellite-based system for secure voice, data, and facsimile and videoconferencing services. We provided program support for the FAA Alaska Satellite Telecommunication Infrastructure (ASTI). This task also required site preparation, surveys, implementation activities and program support functions to oversee a contractor in order to meet the FAA's goals and objectives.  Radios/Spectrum Management: Team RVGS resources have experience with Radio Communication Systems/Spectrum planning, designing, developing, testing, installing, and management of Air Traffic Control Towers used in municipal airport environments to large scale FAA type communications networks. Our staff have successfully performed installation and testing work on FAA RF aviation communication networks. Our company is experienced with a vast array of RF equipment from the General Dynamics CM-200/300 radios to managing handheld radios used for portable communications. Our experience in planning, designing, developing, testing, installing, and managing rack and equipment installations as well as installing and maintaining antenna fields and antenna tower and infrastructures.  Network Management: RVGS personnel have 26+ years of experience installing LAN/WAN architecture from small to large facilities (5,000 facilities) throughout the CONUS area. We are experienced in all aspects of planning, designing, implementing, testing, installation and management of cabling systems and equipment to connect the LAN into a WAN environment or customer environments. We have used network industry monitoring tools to verify proper operation and determine if optimization equipment is needed to improve services. We have installed the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Consolidated Services Network (CSAP) and NET Bandwidth Manager systems into the FAA's National Airspace System (NAS) to provide critical mission services. Twenty-six locations were installed using SNAP and other industry toolsets as well as various Juniper and Cisco platform devices. CSAP and NET BWM are examples of large, diverse networked FAA systems connected to outside agencies, military, and internal customer's services.
29

Figure 3: RVGS hosted Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) network communication support and infrastructure with Advanced Technology Attachment (ATA)
Service Desk Support: Our personnel have assisted in creating Service Desk Support services for various services such as PBX and telecommunications. We have installed infrastructure to maximize efficiencies in order to handle and manage the monitoring of administrative and critical services.
Firewall: Team RVGS completed previous tasks with the FAA to provide IDS/IPS analysis of the proposed new IDS/IPS infrastructure. We were tasked to evaluate products submitted to the agency for consideration to verify that the products would perform to all specifications and FAA requirements. In addition, our team members evaluated how the companies would support the product and any product weaknesses. We designed test and evaluation criteria, installation locations for testing, failure analysis and provided senior level FAA management as well as the product company management with the results and our recommendations.
Cabling/Wiring: We have rich experience in outside cable/fiber plant and facility infrastructure. Our resources successfully completed 1000 pair inter-facility (building to building) using directional boring for wiring at the Ogden, UT IRS as well as completed interconnection of 9 IRS buildings using owned and leased fiber. Additional experience includes:
 Re-cabling each floor and IDF of the Bonneville Power Administration within a 5-month period. Installed voice and data cabling.
 Wired the Federal Aviation Administration Consolidated Services Network (CSAP)  Experience with WalkerDuct, overhead and direct burial wiring.  Performed wiring services on Large, Medium and Inter facility Demarcation Facilities (LDF, MDF
and IDF) installation and upgrades for the CIA (in secure and non-secure communications) and  Performed wiring services for the White House Communications Agency (WHCA).
30

VoIP: Team RVGS performed VoIP tasks including planning, implementing and operational support of the new FAA General Dynamics Information Technology (GDIT) and FAA Administrative Voice Enterprise System (FAVES). Our resource provided operational support and analysis to make sure the FAA transition to the new FAVES VOIP system was successful and efficient while meeting timelines and budgeted costs.
PBX: Team RVGS has the following experience with PBX:  Installed, programmed and provided documentation for the IBX S-80 (Host and Partition) Switching Partition at the Ogden IRS building. Trained users on features of the telephone and voicemail equipment. System was capable of 50,000 non-blocking facilities.  Upgraded and installed a new VOIP Switching platform for the IRS. Millennium EADS/AASTRA Switch is capable of over 100,000 users/facilities and is VOIP compliant.  Supervised installation and upgrades for 5 Switches supporting the Central Intelligence Agency. Switches were used for non-secure and secure communications with all government agencies.  Worked on White House AT&T switches along with ESA secure switching network. This was the only known interface between Black and Red switch at the time of installation.  Installation for GSA Switch at Bonneville Power Administration in Portland, Oregon. Responsible for day-to-day operation and maintenance of the telephone and voicemail systems. Supported over 30 Government agencies with their telecom needs to include moves, adds/changes, cabling and installation and maintenance of numerous key systems. Project coordination for building restack moving up to 100 stations per week over a 6 month period. Updated customer records and provided documentation of the moves to BPA, GSA, and US West officials.  Installation, maintenance support and customer service to San Jose State University, San Jose, CA. Maintained telephone and voicemail equipment to include programming, backups, upgrades and dayto-day moves as well as adds/changes. Installed telephone sets in dormitory rooms and offices.  Provided installation, maintenance, customer support, customer and system administrator training, sales and database design for Intercom, NEC, Nortel and other telephone systems as well as VMX, Octel, Avaya, Mitel and Nortel voicemail systems.  Project coordinator and working supervisor for structured cabling projects on numerous buildings while working with other trade professionals to complete large projects. Provided training, supervision and technical support to customers, co-workers and subordinates.  Maintained and installed PBX for CIA consisting of 75,000+ users. All switches (secure and nonsecure) were connected via T1's and could be administered remotely. Daily maintenance was performed on all local and remote trucks using test equipment. System and truck growth was analyzed on a quarterly basis.  Designed, installed and maintained PBX for the IRS with more than 5,000 users. Host switch controlled all remote switching partitions. The area served was more than 15 miles of city space and was connected via city fiber, IXL's, T-1's and hard copper. All systems were configured for complete redundancy.
Video/Video Teleconference (VTC): Team RVGS resources are experienced in the complete design and build out of the FAA NEMIC facility video wall in Salt Lake City, Utah. Our staff were recognized by the FAA Vice President (Taylor Vaughn) for the work completed. The work completed at this facility was used to perform the same build out at a sister location in Atlanta Georgia.Video/VTC Engineering. Our personnel have installed several video conferencing systems for the FAA. One system was used for training and another was for administrative video conferencing to maximize monies saved from travel and provide quicker strategic planning.
Business processes that Team RVGS performs for telecom / network administration equipment relocation services: The following is an overview of the typical activity that Team RVGS engages in to relocate an Enterprise to new facilities. This is a generic overview and not intended to be a definitive scope of
31

work for any particular client or project. Our methodology utilizes our company's design and management processes.
Design Phase: The following "Design Phase" activities represent general tasks that are carried out by Team RVGS for Business and technology relocations. Local Area Networks:
 Assess current network infrastructure  Establish a reference list of reusable equipment  Interview relevant businesses groups  Review Technology Standards, Policies and Practices  Develop LAN design - Propose a cabling architectural plan  Produce a LAN design and plan for tendering the LAN equipment  Determine LAN budgets  Prepare, Issue and Review tenders and provide recommendations Wide Area Network:  Assess current network architecture and application  Establish a list of equipment to be used in the new building  Interview reverent business groups  Review Standards, Policies, Practices and emerging technologies  Develop a WAN architectural plan  Liaise with carriers and service providers  Define and develop cabling plan  Determine and produce WAN budgets  Prepare, Issue and Review recommendations
Voice Systems:  Assess current infrastructure  Conduct interviews/surveys  Develop a voice network plan and specifications  Determine and produce Voice System budgets  Assess tenders and provide recommendations  Prepare, Issue and Review recommendations.
Data Center & Telecommunications Room Design:  Conduct audit of existing useable equipment  Define an equipment layout and cabling floor plan  Produce tender document  Review tenders and provide recommendations  Design and develop Continuity of Business (COB)
Continuity of Business Network Plan:  Develop a Continuity of Business (COB) Plan  Determine possible component failures and identify restorative actions  Coordinate designs of all systems to ensure connectivity  Produce technology delivery project schedule for the Construction programming
Implementation Phase:  Team RVGS Relocation Methodology addresses the following tasks with respect to the Building Phase of a relocation project.  Develop project schedule and plan
32

 Manage the purchase, delivery, integration, installation and configuration of equipment  LAN and Voice interconnections finalized  Define labeling standards for the new building  Build and administer patching database  Establish and manage inventory tracking system  Establish and manage Change Management system  Establish and manage project budgets  Establish and build a database of equipment for the new building  Establish Acceptance Test Plan  Initiate/attend project meetings  Conduct quality audits
Migration / Relocation Phase:  Team RVGS Relocation Methodology addresses the following areas during the Migration/Relocation phase of the project:  Develop a migration and relocation plan.  Finalization of existing facilities to be relocated, in-conjunction with the new building seating plan.  Develop a relocation contingency plan.  Finalize agreed telephone-numbering plan.  Establish a Relocation Help Desk.  Resource, manage, supervise and coordinate relocation of systems.  Conduct Acceptance Testing of new and relocated systems.  Commission new and relocated systems; and Provide 'as built' hand documentation.
Combining our strengths in Technology Infrastructure Design and Project Management we develop a Technology Relocation plan to address the overall Technology requirements which will be affected by the move. We provide an analysis of the following areas to ensure that the technology is ready for the relocation as part of the process:
 Technology and Infrastructure visioning, strategic planning and budgeting  Cabling systems, technology equipment rooms, and cable routing design  Infrastructure inventory and needs assessment  Vendor Selection and Implementation management services  Facilities Planning and Room & Pathway Designs & Layouts  Design of telecom entrance facilities and technology closets  Technical, functional, and physical specifications  Development of the Technology budget  Bid specifications and drawings for cabling systems  Management of bid processes for IT services and systems  Develop and manage and maintain a detailed Project Plan  Provide user reports with status of recommended actions and plans  Construction management of IT infrastructure and systems implementation  Technology migration and relocation management
Kept track of our customer-facing resources with network communication support services and monitored these applications and made sure our customers connected to the servers and were seeing what they needed to see. Managed monitoring also included managing ournetwork communication support to isolate and remediate incidents and move, add and change levels of service. Maximized builds upon our monitoring and management offered by adding even more tools and services for optimizing network communication support availability. Enhanced maintenance gave us direct access to manufacturer-certified technical experts. Delivered additional analytics for determining how assets are being consumed, which allowed us for changes to further improve reliability. Identified opportunities for growth and innovation and created mechanisms for continuously
33

improving outcomes with network communication support.
Converged network communication support and partnered together to provide premium and nationwide telephone systems support. Provided data equipment to keep our telecommunication smooth and consistent with network communication support. Managed accounts and ensured that our network communication supported the best plan that met the business's needs. Our network communication support team of RVGS from dial-tone and internet services to post-installation maintenance supported business. With our cohesive telecommunication packages, we received immediate response times and quick solutions to ensure that our business continues to run smoothly. Our experts of network communication support assisted customers and from our exceptional client service, we've achieved a 99% customer retention rate. Our Voice over Internet Protocol Private Branch Exchange systems (VoIP PBX) offered a number of business benefits including cost reduction, system flexibility and advanced features that supported our business as it grew. Minimized the risks and protected our business-crucial VoIP PBX of network communication support from potential net threats and internal malfeasance by performing basic practices:
 Used strong passwords: Used strong passwords for every password required in our Private Branch Exchange (PBX). Activated typical network communication support system with passwords for: extension registrations, administration web interface, user web interfaces and voicemails. Recommended strong passwords of at least 8 characters, including a mix of upper and lower case along with digits, be applied to wherever possible and be changed periodically every 2-3 months at most using network communication support.
 Kept our PBX updated: Reviewed regularly and updated our PBX firmware/software standard security practice and kept our network communication support software safe. Found and fixed most recent versions through network communication support, secured bugs and other potential vulnerabilities. Supported critical security features & layers of protection by the latest version with technology evolving over time. Kept an active annual technical network communication support system and PBX maintenance subscription with Phone Wire to ensure that it had access to the latest software updates from the manufacturer.
 Separated voice and data traffic: Separated voice and data traffic using network communication support system in order to be recognized as an effective method to counter VoIP security risks. Provided dedicated Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) trunks that support Next Generation Network (NGN) ports, which can separate data, voice, video networks & any combination of the three to form a converged network. Used network communication support and separated the voice traffic and data traffic logically by a Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN) switch. Penetrated one VLAN to others to remain secured. Also, limited the rate of traffic to Internet Protocol (IP) telephony of network systems supporting VLANs to slow down the outside attack.
 Avoided port forwarding: Identified risks potential attacks by opening a hole in our firewall. Our network communication support deployed a Virtual Private Network (VPN) device at both ends making it a smart choice. Connected devices from both ends formed an encrypted secure "tunnel" over the public internet, keeping all of our traffic safe. With PhoneWire of network communication support, we had an optional annual cloud management solution that allowed smartphone app users to seamlessly and securely connect to our cloud servers instead of directly to our own server and firewall. Maintained on-premises server that connected directly to our cloud server through a secure VPN tunnel where it is not needed to open any firewall ports or complicated inbound rules (thereby eliminating risk to our local network).
 Secured the trunks on PBX: Restricted the use of outbound calls from each vulnerable end-point and disallowed anonymous incoming calls, which we performed in the following 3 ways with network communication support
 Set up outbound route permission: Our network communication support employees performed different tasks in our company. Considered setting different outbound routes for
34

different trunks: local, long-distance and international and assigned outbound route permission only to the users that require the use of it. We with the help of network communication support limited access and brought a secure system.  Disallowed anonymous incoming calls: Charged unknown calls to the bill of our trunks. Prevented attackers who dial into a PBX system with anonymous numbers, then use the functionality of the PBX to generate an outbound call, and incur call charge using network communication support. We chose to disallow anonymous incoming calls through advanced Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) setting options of our Private Branch Exchange (PBX).  Configure outbound restriction: Allowed our network communication support to limit the users outbound calls during a certain time period and configured the settings. Minimized the losses caused by toll fraud if there is any.  Blocked unauthorized access with firewall: Pre-configured rules to control and filter traffic with network communication support. Created firewall rules on our PBX to filter specific source IP address/domain, ports, Media Access Control (MAC) address and blocked dangerous (or suspicious) access that contributed to attack fraud or calls loss. Manually added rules to block untrusted web access with a specific range of IP addresses (IP blacklisting) and defined a few accepted rules, whitelists, dropped all the packets and connections from other hosts to ensure network communication support system access. Prevented massive connection attempts and brute force attacks, utilized the incorporated anti-hacking auto-detection mechanisms of our PBX system, identified attackers per second based on the packets sent within a specific time interval and automatically blocked them using network communication support system.
Figure 4: Core network communication support operated by team RVGS  Made contingency plans: Implemented various measures to protect our network communication.
Programmed contingency plans with the help network communication support team to detect attackers if successfully infiltrated our PBX and forced our PBX to fail
 Designed event notification feature of network communication support and ensured to set it up properly to get informed of important happenings on our PBX system (i.e. the change of
35

administrator password) just in time.  Scheduled auto backup on our PBX through network communication support. We reset it and
restored configurations from the backup file to ensure fast recovery.  Considered implementing a redundancy solution, which helped to keep our business network
communication support running as usual even when encountered with unexpected server failure.
Industry Best Practices Employed:  We implemented processes where quality assurance is seen as an important part in every phase of the software development life cycle. With this approach, quality assurance became a part of the development phase itself as opposed to waiting until the QA phase. This resulted in fewer bugs/issues in the end product.  Big red button: Implemented a process where if a component is misbehaving in the enterprise architecture, we were able to stop the rogue component from causing any major harm to the end user functionality.  Implemented component based architecture. This reduced the risk in enterprise architecture.  Data driven approach: We implemented a design which would collect data on the functionality usage. We used this data to find out which feature/functionality is mostly being used by the end user.
Team RVGS, represented by RV Global Solutions Inc.(RVGS) and our Mentoring partner, Integral Consulting Services, are CMMI software/systems certified. Our application development life-cycle (SDLC) processes are based on the System Engineering Methodology (SEM) and are shown in Figure 5. Software or systems development begins with the definition of the need--the project is scoped and planned. Our software/systems development processes are tightly coupled with our project management practices, reducing development risk and producing increased quality. Risk reduction and quality improvements together deliver lower costs and improved schedule performance in the project design and deployment phases. Following development of the software or system, we take the same steps to test the system, verify it against the requirements, and validate it against stakeholder needs.
Our software/system and application development process is customizable to your requirements and can be used with multiple development approaches, including traditional Waterfall, Prototyping, Iterative, and Agile approaches. Team RVGS is agnostic regarding development approaches--we appreciate the advantages of each approach and have the expertise and experience to help our clients select the best one to meet specific requirements.
Quality Management Methodology Team RVGS's matured and proven Quality Management Methodology (I-QMM) is based on its certified CMMI Service Level 3, ISO 20000 and ISO 9001:2008 quality standards. Team RVGS customizes the I-QMM to guide and lead total team performance toward meeting or exceeding the government's defined quality and performance requirements. Our quality framework provides management, administration, and control across a diverse set of requirements--without hindering execution effectiveness. The overarching framework for highquality control includes:
 Conducting an analysis of requirements  Creating quality control mechanisms that measure how well our technical and operational approaches
support the requirements and maintain quality thresholds  Integrating employees into the quality management process by 1) instilling the I-QMM approach into
day-to-day operations, and 2) empowering them to raise issues and provide feedback related to performance quality  Evaluating the degree of success in our results and implementing required corrections or improvements
36

 Performing continuous surveillance and audits to promptly identify and resolve any non-conformances  Performing corrective and preventive actions to eliminate recurrence of such problems and maintain
high-quality performance I-QMM includes our:
 QCP that defines the process for maintaining quality at every step of a project and encompasses a robust continuous improvement program
 Quality Assurance surveillance to regularly monitor implementation of the QCP against the performance requirements summary, to ensure that the government receives the level of quality consistent with the requirements and expectations specified in each task order.
Quality Control Plan (QCP) Quality is built into our management and operations processes that include hiring qualified staff, optimally assigning roles and responsibilities, and proactively monitoring the quality of project deliverables and services, ensuring full compliance with the performance requirements. It also includes collecting and analyzing metrics at various levels of operations so we can determine the bottlenecks and recurring problems and fix those problems to improve the quality and efficiency of operations. We develop, maintain, enforce, and document a QCP, which stands on four fundamental pillars:
 Quality planning  Quality assurance to monitor and control against the plan  Measurement and improvement  Reporting
Figure 5: Our software/system and application development process is based on the SEM. Quality Assurance Our Project Manager takes full responsibility to implement Team RVGS's processes used to manage and deliver services and deliverables. The Project manager has overall quality assurance responsibility and decision-making authority to:
37

 Establish quality control and corrective actions  Track metrics to identify problem areas and root causes and develop corrective actions  Review each team member's performance to ensure delivery in accordance with your performance
requirements summary thresholds  Provide quality directions and awareness among the team members  Communicate quality results to the government The Project Manager's authority also extends to creating and communicating the expectation that team members are to resolve day-to-day performance issues on their own or with the help of senior Team RVGS and government colleagues. She/he also instructs them to watch for signs that a small problem is worsening, and in such instances, to inform him with all the relevant facts. If the problem appears to be resolvable at the staff/team member level or with Project Manager assistance, the team member takes action to resolve it. If the performance issue appears larger or broader, the Project Manager elevates it to the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) and other government representatives, as appropriate, to discuss and agree on a corrective action. Risk Management Methodology Risks are part of our everyday workplace, and through proactive management, risks can be mitigated, minimized, or eliminated. Risk Management is critical to ensuring a successful program. Our Risk Management Methodology shown in Figure 6 follows a well-documented process comprising the following phases:  Risk Planning. Our Project Manager working with the team and client will identify major risks that
are likely to affect the project and document the characteristics of each risk.  Risk Analysis. Our Project Manager will examine various scenarios based on identified risks, measure
the potential risk impact, determine the probability of occurrence, and establish risk severity.  Risk Mitigation Strategy. Based on criticality and probability, the Project Manager will identify
measures to eliminate or reduce the impact of a risk and plan for contingencies, and identify resource requirements and responsible personnel for each action.  Risk Monitoring and Control. The Project Manager will verify that all project risks are identified, assessed, mitigated, and tracked on a regular basis, and will report any issues to the COR.  Risk Close-out. The Project Manager will remove risks from the risk register upon successful risk mitigation or removal actions.
Transition Management Methodology Team RVGS has developed and matured an integrated Transition Management Methodology (I-TMM) that has successfully transitioned 92 personnel team CONUS and OCONUS within 45 days ahead of its planned schedule and costs to a 14 person team within 5 days of contract award. Our 5-Phase transition Approach: is illustrated in Figure 7.
Phase 1: Diagnostics: Pre-Award Preparation: The Diagnostics Phase 1 includes researching and defining a set of activities to be performed before the contract award so Team RVGS is ready for immediate transition to start on contract award. This Phase includes identifying transition and completing project staffing, assessing transition schedule, understanding client's QASP, analyzing type of activities, identifying allocation of tasks to team members based on their competencies, researching issues in current operation, etc. In anticipation of the award, our team has already completed Phase 1-transition activities, including identifying and securing some of the best-performing incumbent consultants (with signed LOIs). Phase 1 involves recruiting above the expected level of the requirement, hiring incumbents, and securing the current high performing leadership. Phase 2: Planning - Post Award Initiative The Planning Phase 2 includes development of the Transition Plan that primarily focuses on developing and baselining comprehensive transition plans. The transition plan includes a project plan with a WBS, schedule, and milestones; a Risk Management Plan identifying potential transition risks and our risk mitigation strategy to eliminate or minimize the impact of any potential risks; and a staffing plan led by our Transition Manager to successfully complete the transition of a task order within the specific timeframe with full knowledge transfer
38

and assumption of responsibilities.
Figure 6: Risk Management Process Implemented by Team RVGS
Figure 7: Team RVGS's 5-Phase Approach To A Successful Transition The key elements of our Transition Plan involve recruiting above requirements, hiring incumbent staff, collecting and monitoring staffing metrics, understanding and defining roles and responsibilities, and working with the client personnel, incumbent contractor, and RVGS's partners for a smooth transition with no interruption to service on the client requirements. Phase 3: Execution - Documentation, Training, Clearances, and Knowledge Transfer RVGS's Transition Manager starts working with the COR to understand the most important and critical activities supporting the mission and assigns the responsibilities to selected staff to work on the specific transition tasks. To ensure a cost effective amicable transition, Team RVGS works with the client and the incumbent contractor to:
 Finalize the Transition Plan 39

 Develop and finalize Integrated Master Schedule (IMS) that includes transition plan and project plans for continuing client activities
 Receive validation from the client as to key incumbent performers and make sure a concerted effort is made to capture those individuals not already captured
 Ensure approved Project Management Plan (PMP) serves as the blueprint for project tasks  Finalize Risk Mitigation Strategy with the COR  Review key production processes, quality standards, and levels of review and approval  Systematically and orderly transfer knowledge, tasks, activities, standards, documentations, and SOPs
to Team RVGS for operations across all tasks for the program  Release incumbents from the current contract and pick up on the new contract with all clearances and
systems accesses transferred and updated reflecting changed statuses  Coordinate with the client security office to ensure incumbents' clearances are released and transferred
to allow for indoctrinations to occur in the shortest time possible  Work with incumbent contractor security office to facilitate badge transition, Personal Identification
Verification (PIV) and updating any new information  Coordinate with the client security officer to schedule times and dates to have incumbents phased off
the current contract to the new contract ensuring all teams are covered through this transition out and in processing  Ensure that each team member becomes fully productive and operational by the end of the specified transition period.  Identify employees from each team and the out-process/in-process schedule minimizing individual's time off mission Phase 4: Improvements Once Team RVGS starts taking over the project responsibilities, we review and research efficiencies and constraints of each task and subtask, SOPs, Status and Financial Reports, technical reports, deliverables and project plans and identify a set of improvements that can be made to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of these tasks, documentations and deliverables. This may include the following:  Enhance current SOPs or develop new ones to improve and optimize the efficiency, training, and execution of the SOPs  Review the Status and Financial Reports and evaluate if they can be streamlined, standardized, and improved to succinctly and transparently communicate the status of all activities and tasks of the task order against the baseline Project Plan  Establish standard templates for technical reports, briefing presentations, trip reports, and white papers so they can be consistently created for task order with similar branding and consistency of depth of information covered  Review baseline project plans to ensure they have enough details to communicate the plans to the team members and measure their progress against the plans  Verify installation and functioning of all the tools ensuring they are available to the team  Evaluate operational activities and make necessary improvements to enhance their efficiencies and offer higher degree of services to the clients  Evaluate and optimize staff assignments to maximize their experience, qualifications, and utilizations Phase 5: Assuming Operations Responsibilities At the end of the specified transition period, Team RVGS takes full responsibilities to lead and manage the task order. Team RVGS's Transition Manager transfers full responsibility to our Project Manager who then manages the day-to-day operation of the task order. From this point on, the Project Manager is the main pointof-contact for the client.
40

